Welcome to the second quarter fiscal year 2018, microsoft corp earnings conference call at this time, all participants are in a listen only mode. A question and answer session will follow the formal presentation. If you would like to ask a question please press star one on your telephone keypad, a confirmation tone will indicate your line is in the question cue from start to turn remove your question from the queue for participants using speaker.
May be necessary to pick up your handset prior to pressing the star keys. If anyone should require operators says since during the conference, please press star zero. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would like to turn the call over to Chris, general manager of investor relations. Chris, please proceed. Thank you very good afternoon. And thank you for joining us today on the calls me or stock to tell as chief executive officer, Amy, her chief financial.
Frank growth, chief accounting officer and Carolyn print our new Jeff, our new deputy general counsel corporate secretary. On the microsoft investor relations website, you can find our earnings press release and financial summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks during today's call and provides the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non GAAP financial measures this quarter we incurred a tax. Cha.
To the enactment of the tax cuts and jobs act, we have excluded. The impact of this tax charge in our non GAAP net income and earnings per share metrics. These non GAAP financial metrics should not be considered as to substitute for are superior to the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with the GAAP they're included as additional clarifying items to eight investors and further understanding the company second quarter performance.
Impact that these items and events had on the financial results. All growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of last year unless otherwise noted. We will also provide growth rates in constant currency. When available as a framework for assessing how our underlying business has performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. Where growth rates are the same in constant currency? We will refer to the.
We will post our prepared remarks on our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question it will be included in our lives transmission, in the transcript, and any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript on the microsoft investor relations website until January 31st 2018 during this call.
Forward to statements to our predictions, projections, are other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release in the comments made during the conference call in in the risk factors section of our form 10 k form 10 q and other reports and filings with the securities and exchange commission. Weed.
Any duty to update any forward looking statements and with that I'll turn the call over to the idea thank you Chris, and thanks for everyone on the phone for joining our results. This quarter speak to our picking the right secular trends and markets and following the top with focused innovation and execution. The intelligent cloud and intelligent edge. Powdered I'm is fast becoming a real.
As you grow, the accelerated linked in growth accelerated microsoft three 65 and dynamics 3. 6. 5 a driving on growth in transforming the workplace x box is reaching new customers with new office with don. As the backdrop, I want to highlight key areas of innovation and growth across our customers solutions, every ceo I talked to his keen to stay.
Females and Johnny by empowering their employees and creating a more than workplace, there one product to have a't and collaboration tools that deliver continuous innovation and do saw securely specter and meltdown or the latest instances in an increasingly complex threat environment. Our investments to make windows stand the most secure always up to date operating system.
Costs to move quickly to protect customers. In the face of these threats for protecting customers will continue to be a top priority. Our continued commitment to operational security and advanced technology is one reason customers like bp goody are paid power are choosing microsoft. Three 65 mastercard chose microsoft three 65% to impart employees and in.
Team work with integrated apps like teams, yammer and share point very infusing. I across microsoft's to three 65 with the simple goal of helping people do their best work inside snack cell is a new service that uses machine learning to detect and highlight patents translator bring 16 languages to would we are helping people be more productive on the go on?
With the real time co-authoring in office apps on ios android, and now the mac and just this month, we announced that dictation will be available across multiple apps and office 3. 6. 5 empowering use us to write freely using only their voice we are making voice of first plus input for productivity Gautama can help manage your email, but pulling up important emails.
Loud and letting you reply using just your wife's were also bringing caught on his intelligence to outlook, mobile app notifying your when it's time to leave a meeting to get to your next won based on your location and traffic mixed reality empowers employees with new immersive experiences enterprise customers like Mercedes Benz in Germany are using mixed reality to transform training, helping maintenance. Technicians.
From grinded breakthrough path through how component in a new diesel engine work, we are expanding our opportunity with microsoft three 65 for organizations of all types and sizes. Fig first line, work, its leading global telecommunications, retail and hospitality companies such as beady target for an Arab red and delta global services all chose office three.
Maximize the impact of their first line workforce in education, we are in following every student with new learning tools natively build into office 3. 6. 5 to improve reading writing incomprehension as well as mixed reality experiences for immersive learning. This quarter, we launched a fidelity and then wailed a new generation of always on always connected windows 10.
ROEM partners with up to 20 days of standby power, this new category of Pcs, deeply integrated with katana and with new near field and fan field capability will fundamentally change product to VT now turn to link and business applications. As we passed the one marker microsoft and linked in uniting the world's leading professional cloud.
Meaning professional network linked in continues its strong trajectory with accelerating revenue growth and record levels of engagement, the 5th consecutive quarter of more than 20 sessions growth. Appetite for conversations across the platform continues to grow from sharing in the field to video to one on one messages sent all up more than 60 purse.
Over year. This increased engagement across the platform is driving strong growth in demand to sponsored content and marketing solutions and record levels of job, postings and job. Visitors in talents solutions linked in is continually creating new ways for members to connected engaged with one another such as this quarter's launch of period advice from the deeper integration of fails, navigator and dine am.
For sales and dynamics put talent to the launch a profile cost to bring personalized linked in insides directly into office. Three 65 to the new resume an assistant and excited about the many ways in which we are delivering fall fall customer and member experiences that leverage bolt the microsoft and linked in. Graphs.
See good momentum in dynamics, 3. 6. 5 with revenue growth of 67% year over year. Our modern in module our business process applications are resonating with customers driving digital transformation probably technologies are global leader in data center support coast dynamics 3. 6. 5, along with linked in sales, navigator integration and united technologies in Colombia spoke to a jeweled dynamics, 3. 6. 5 in.
That digital transformation now I'll talk about cloud, as I, as intelligent cloud intelligent edge becomes more predominant are architectural advantage is increasingly clear to our customers. You see this reflected in the late ACIO service as well as in on 98% ... revenue growth this quarter only microsoft delivers. High.
Since he develop of productivity ai capabilities and trust in security in compliance this architecture advantage helps us address both existing enterprise workloads, a new workloads such as IOT and edge. I to thrive in this new at a customers need a consistent stack across public cloud and the edge. A model lodges stack uniquely enables.
Broad availability. Just a few months ago, we are seeing incredible customer demand for agile stack across a diverse set of industries, including slump urge their ABB midst wooing knowledge industry with democratizing data finds in I so any organization can convert their data into actionable insights and drive competitive advantage as your cause most DB, the first globally distribute.
Multi model database, it is unique in its support for a new class of low latency event base over lists applications. As your data breaks brings leading a patching spark based analytics. Our new sequel surveys on Linux is off to a strong start with more than five million downloads and will bring more developers to the sequel ecosystem longer term too.
All with millions of intelligent endpoints every company needs and diety strategy. Microsoft is giving customers comprehensive solutions to help them realize the promise of connected world of devices and things azure. I have to central is the first global scale Saas offering that enables customers to build intelligence to cure enterprise grade IOD open ours. Has your event griggs simplifies the creation.
T solutions across millions of endpoints as variety edge enables customers to run several has computing and machine learning models at the edge. Chevron is using a variety to harness massive amounts of data from its oil fields to accelerate deployment of new intelligent solutions for oil exploration and do managed thousands of oil wells worldwide, increasing revenue and improvements safety and rely.
Their operations color is building connected whites activated products forward visor IAT and Johnson controls is using large scale device management capabilities in azure IOT adv and desire't for their new smart Gloucester most start with coat on a voice control. We reached the human power a't milestone in Michigan reading comprehension using the Stanford question on the data said....
Which is the ability for I do read the documents and on the questions about it. We using this and other ai advances to address some of society's most pressing challenges by partnering broadly across industries. In healthcare, we are partnering with adopted biotechnologies to build a practical solution for mapping the human immune system to detect cancer.
Us in the earliest ages, we have created a hippo comply and help thought powered by age or cognitive services to assist with questions about health insurance, symptoms and location of nearby doctors. A roller a healthcare. You PMC primary bluecross have already signed on in retail kroger is using ... to polish that digital grocery store displayed solution for our.
Seeing and promotions based on customer data to boost sales, those autonomous in-store rohbock users as to keep constant tabs on inventory and identify out of stock on misplaced items, freeing store employees to focus on their customers and prove pluses group new ai platform built on Amazon and office 3. 6. 5 will empower the 80000 employees.
Old wide now, let me turn to gaming our new x box. One x was the top selling premium consoled as holiday in the united states, and we saw strong sales of x box one, as we will continue to innovate in console to attract hywel value gamers who want in motive, for k experiences to build a broad us subscription service with the game past.
End our services to all devices in our customers lives across the console, pc and mobile our decision to release exclusive game content on the x box game past simultaneously with global release increases the value of the subscription for members and our partners and we are off to a very good start. We grew gamer engagement again.
59 million monthly active x box live members record usage of r x box life services record view was of a new streaming service, mix and record mine craft users. Finally, we just acquired play the top which sells more than seven 100 million gaiman's with more than one more than 1200 games from companies like Disney rovio and atari.
Complete back in platform for mobile pc and console game developers to build launch and scale cloud. Connected gains extending our investments in as a to provide a world costs cloud platform for the gaming industry.
Turnover to Amy, I want to reflect on a topic that is at the forefront of every customer conversation that I have in an area where there is rapid transformation driven by digital technology. Customers are looking for a trusted thought. No someone with a business model that is aligned with their long term interests deep technical innovation and then understand.
On the ability that goes along with this innovation, the this perhaps is one of our key differentiators internally. We have a saying microsoft runs on trust, and we strive to on an everyday with all of the constituents we said now while handed over to Amy, who will color off financial results in more detail and share our outlook and I look for.
New further questions later. Thank you, satya, and good afternoon everyone. Our second quarter revenue was $28.9 billion of 12% and 11% in constant currency with, better than expected performance across all segment Gross. Margin increased 12% operating. Income increased 10% this quarter we, incurred a tax charge.
Point. $8 billion related to the enactment of the tax cuts and jobs act, excluding that earnings per share was was 96.06. 20% we. Achieved another quarter of double digit top and bottom line growth as, we continued to realize the impact of strategic growth investments along, with strong sales execution at a company level link den contributed approx.
The revenue growth in 5. Of Gross margin growth with minimal impact on operating income growth, excluding the costs, but amortization of acquired intangibles link 10 contributed $111 million operating income and continues to be accretive to EPSS fiscal year ahead of our original expectations. Across most geographies, our results were in line with the overall improving macroeconomic trends.
Large markets, including the us western Europe and France performed better than expected driven by commercial cloud momentum. Our sales teams and channel partners delivered another quarter of outstanding commercial results, even as we continue to work through our sales reorganization from July. Our commercial revenue annuity mix improved by 3. Year over year too.
Sat with healthy renewal rates commercial bookings increased 7% and 4% in constant currency, even with a 20% smaller underlying exploration base from commercial unearned revenue came in slightly higher than expected at more than $20.2 billion from growth in multi your customer commitments to azure commercial cloud revenue was.
Three billion growing 56% year over year with broad based growth across geographic markets, and customer segment Gross margin increased by 7. To 55%. In line with seasonal trends. We improved Gross margin percentage in each cloud service and azure again saw the most significant margin improvement this quarter.
Margin was 62% and flat year over year sales mix of higher margin products and services, including better than expected performance from windows server and windows OEM pro combined with improving cloud margins offset the impact of a growing mix of cloud revenue linked and amortization cost and device launches. The f x impact on company and segment revenue growth was in line with it.
The weaker us dollar increased revenue growth in Less than 1. F x had only 1. Of impact of operating expense growth Less than expected. This quarter. Operating expenses grew 14% and 13% in constant currency, with 10. Of growth from linked in including $154 million of amortization expense. We continued to increase investments in cloud engineering.
And sales capacity to drive future growth. Now to the segment results productivity and business processes revenue grew 25% and 24% in constant currency to $9 billion, slightly better than expected. Fueled by linked in revenue. Acceleration link 10 contributed 15. Of growth. All this commercial revenue grew double digits again.
Increasing 10% year over year office three 65 commercial revenue increased 41% from the install base growth across all customer segments, and arpu expansion from continued customer migration to higher value offers in the e. Three and five clubs office three 65 commercial seeds grew 30% in line with the expected trends, given the increasing the size of the ...
Office consumer revenue increased 12% and 11% in constant currency, driven by office three 65 recurring subscription revenue and growth in our subscriber base now at 29.2 million or dynamics business grew 10% and 9% in constant currency driven, by dynamics 365 revenue growth of 67% and 60 80%.
Say Lincoln revenue for the quarter was better than expected at $1.3 billion driven, by strong sales execution across all linked in. Services we. Saw continued strengthen user engagement customer, acquisition renewals and upsell performance segment. Gross margin dollars increased 24% to 23% in constant currency.
Points contribution from link den including the impact of $222 million of amortization expense Gross margin percentage to create slightly due to the impact of linked unrelated amortization expense, and the increased to mix of cloud services. Operating expenses grew 41%, 9% in constant currency, whose 33. Of contribution from link den including 150.
Of amortization expense, excluding link 10 operating expenses increased on cloud engineering and sales capacity investments. Operating income increased 9% and 10% in constant currency, with only 2. Of negative impact from linked in the intelligent cloud segment delivered $7.8 billion of revenue growing, 15% with better than expected per.
By hybrid cloud server products and cloud services revenue grew 18% with another quarter of double digit annuity revenue growth, as a revenue growth accelerated to 98% with as your premium services revenue growing chip triple digits for the 42 consecutive quarter. Enterprise services revenue grew 5% in 3% in constant currency, as growth in prime.
Services and microsoft consulting services was partially offset by declines in customer support agreements for windows server 2003, so segment Gross dollar Gross margin dollars grew 13% and Gross margin percentage declined slightly as the impact of increasing cloud revenue mix was mostly offset by material improvement and as our Gross margin. Operating expenses grew 3%.
Constant currency from ongoing investments and sales capacity and caught engineering. Operating income increased 24%. In more personal computing. Revenue was $12.2 billion up, 2% with better than expected results driven, by windows and search excluding. Phone revenue grew 4% our. Windows OEM business grew 4% this quarter.
We expected OEM pro revenue reflects a stronger than anticipated commercial p c market bolstered by improve macro conditions and continued healthy enterprise windows 10 deployments. We benefited as well from higher mix of premium licenses and the timing of license purchases.
Revenue was 5. Below the stabilizing consumer p c market. We continue to see growth in the premium category in line with the market but heightened price competition. All entry level devices contributed to lower volumes. Inventory levels remained in the normal range. Windows commercial products and cloud services declined 4% and 5% in constant currency, mainly due to the impact of a large.
Prior year, search revenue x tack grew 15% from higher revenue per search driven by continued optimization of our advertising platform and search volume growth in both the us and international markets.
Grew 1%, roughly flat and constant currency, as we continue to transition our portfolio towards surface laptop pro with LTE and the new surface book to this holiday quarter. Graeme in gaming revenue grew 8%, mainly driven by harbor. Revenue growth to 14% 13% in constant currency, from the launch of our premium console, the x box, one x x, Clarke software and service.
4% with continued monetization growth, partially offset by our prior year first party triple a title launches. Segment. Gross margin dollars were roughly flat year over year with the decline in gaming offset by growth in search and surface segment Gross margin percentage declined as expected with the console launch operating expenses increased 2% and 1% in constant currency.
Engineering investments and search, hey, I in gaming that were partially offset by declines and windows marketing and phone expenses. Operating income declined 2%. As a reminder q two was the last quarter of phone comparability given the sale of feature phone business last year now back to the overall company results, as expected, our capital expenditures, including finance leases increase.
$3.3 billion due to higher levels of customer demand and usage for our cloud services cash. Paid for property and equipment was $2.6 billion. Free cash, flow generation free cash flow grew this quarter 23% driven by operating cash flow growth of 25% free cash flow increased from higher customer collections following strong Billings growth.
Working capital improvements in the hardware business and contribution from link den other income and expenses was 490 million this quarter more than planned due to higher interest income. Our non GAAP effective tax rate this quarter was 18% lower than anticipated driven by an audit settlement, as well as a normal variability between service and license revenue mix geographic revenue mix.
Equity vast. We return to $5 billion to shareholders and share repurchases and dividends. Now let's turn to next quarters outlook. Assuming rates extending current rates remain stable. We expect FX to increased revenue growth by 2. Caused by 1. And operating expenses by 1. With positive. I't spent signals a strengthening commercial p c market.
Customer demand for hybrid cloud services, we expect our commercial business to remain strong, as we drive annuity growth expand our installed base and execute well on renewals. We expect commercial on our revenue to be down approximately two to 3% sequentially in line with historic soon ality and argue story expiry base will return to year over year growth.
Commercial bookings growth. Third capex, we will increase our capital expenditures to support increasing demand and capacity requirements on non accrual dollar basis. We expect a sequential dollar increase next quarter. We expect year over year improvement and overall commercial cloud Gross margin as as rim arjun improvement continues to offset an increasing next of as you will revenue.
And productivity and business processes, we expect revenue between 8.6 $8 billion both. Office commercial and consumer revenue growth will be driven by officers to 65 with growth rates for each consistent with the q two we, expect double digit dynamics revenue growth from the shift to dynamics three, to 65 link 10 should deliver approximately $1.2 billion. Growing more than 20.
And intelligent cloud, we expect revenue between 7.5. $7 billion with strong double digit revenue growth in server products and cloud services and enterprise services we. Expect to revenue growth rate similar to q two as growth and premier support should offset the decline of windows 2003 customer support agreements.
Computing, we expect revenue between 9.1. $4 billion in. Windows we, expect OEM revenue to be largely align with the total p c market both. OEM pro revenue and non pro revenue should be impacted by similar dynamic seen in q two now two devices surface. Revenue should grow year over year for continue to launch momentum from.
Pro book and laptop, but declined sequentially, consistent with the holiday seasonality. In search x taxi, we expect a similar strong rate of revenue growth to q two. In gaming. We expect revenue growth similar to last quarter, but with a revenue mix shift to software and services and continued year over year growth of our x box live user base. We expect cogs.
And $9.2 billion including, 1. Of f x headwinds we, expect operating expenses of 9.1 $2 billion. Including 1. , of f x headwinds given the, opportunity ahead of us and our execution to date we will, continue to invest intelligent cloud intelligent edge ai and, our sales teams to drive to sustainable top line growth.
Other in common expense should be approximately $350 million, as we continue to take gains are equities portfolio and earn dividend and interest income. This is lower than we previously expected, reflecting the impact of rising interest rates on our fixed income portfolio. Now a few comments on the fiscal year. First, given our outperformance in the first half of the year, we are now ahead of our previous expect.
Year Gross margin we are now trending to be roughly flat year over year, including link 10. Second, we still expect full year operating expenses, including link them between $0 and $6.40. 36.7 billion. We are. Confident in this investment given our, significant growth opportunities consistent execution, and strong competitive position.
Operating margin we are again trending ahead of our previous guidance. We now expect company operating margin, including link 10 to be slightly up year over year, excluding length Dem company operating margin should improve by more than a point for the tax rate the face in our current understanding of the recently enacted tax law, we now Exp.
Tax rate for h two to be 16% plus or 2. For fy'19. We expect our full year effective tax rate to be slightly below the new us corporate rate of 21%, due to the impact of tax law provisions effective for us July 1st, 2018, we will continue to have quarterly variability based on.
Visible license revenue geographic mix of revenue and the timing of equity vest. Finally, we remain consistent in our ongoing commitment to capital return. As always, we believe the highest shareholder value is created first through organic and inorganic investment to pursue pursue pursue the significant market opportunities ahead and are proud of our resource al.
His and the results and we'VE been focused on capital return through both dividends and share repurchases. A key part of our commitment to total share with hope for the return for many years with the recent tax reform, we can continue that commitment without the need to access the capital markets before trying to QAI have one special. Thank you. Chris size moving to a.
As the senior finance leader of our azure and server business, on behalf of the company, thank you, for your significant impact on investor relations for the past. 5 years and I'd like to welcome my expense or the former finance leader of our office three 65 business. As the new head of investor relations. We look forward to having you lead the team. Now Chris let's go to q a.
Thanks. Amy will now move to a writer can you please repeat your instructions thank you will now be conducting a question and answer session. If you'd like to ask a question is press star one on your telephone keypad and confirmation tone will indicate your line is in the question q press star to lie to remove your question from the queue for participants using speaker equipment, it may be necessary to pick up your hands that were for pressing the star. Cues.
Our first question comes from the line of Karl keirstead with deutsche bank. Please proceed. Thanks very much and congratulations on the results. So relative to your guidance over half the beat this quarter came in the intelligent cloud segment. So I wouldn't mind digging in there a little bit and it wasn't just the the amazing azure performance year on from server product business accelerate.
The cautious commentary about a tough comp on the last call, even enterprise services was plus three instead of flat and your guide actually suggest that that goodness in intelligent cloud should continue next quarter, despite actually away to for comp. So. IM just curious Amy or satya, if there's any threads that you can we through this intelligent cloud outperformance?
Broader increase in enterprise spend in the December quarter, any change in behavior, or is all of this goodness a little bit more microsoft specific any you called out, I't spending signal so I'm guessing maybe a little bit was macro. Thank you. Thanks call. Let me start and as we can add for me it all comes down to really.
An architectural advantage on what is a new secular trend. So when we think about the intelligent cloud in the intelligent edge, and then bring that to the Asia business, you can see it at each layer of when it comes into the infrastructure were the only cloud provider that provides true hybrid cloud computing with azure and as you stack, when it comes to the dated tr we.
Neatness sick something like cost most DVD. The only planets scale database. Thats multi models supports these new programming models of silver Less than they've been driven programming take sequel what we are seeing in terms, the sequel growth in terms of azure DB, as well as sequence of or and sequels over on Linux that's again addressing the customer needs.
Their new workloads that are being born that required, both the cloud and the edge. Our IRTV in a great example of that, and especially when you take that in combination with I again, you train on the cloud, and you score on the edge. Thats are real competitive advantage. We have everything from sort of the lifecycle management of how these models get created in deployed.
So I think that's what you're seeing they will be variability quarter to quarter. They will be mixed differences. But overall when I look at what is it that we need to get done is innovate on what is upon the metal architectural advantage to where the world is going, and I would say coral a couple of things we've been investing here both an engineer.
Differentiation that thought we just talked about in sales resources, and then continuing to invest in technical sales resources that can help our customers be successful and these deployment. I actually think you're a continuing to see the impact of those investments growing in time and growing and expertise. And so I feel encouraged both by the technical differentiation, but all.
Turn on the investments we've made here that lead us to have a good amount of confidence that you do see in the guide in q three and yes, you're right. We do have a tougher comparable particularly on prem in q three, which is correct. Okay. Thank you, but oh, thanks will move to the next question please.
Our next question comes from line of Keith weiss, Morgan Stanley, please proceed hi Susan. Thank you guys for taking the question very again in really not solid quarter and Chris has been on great working with you sorry, if you go from this role as to my questions, one question for sought a and is starting a little bit now maybe running off from there.
Gaming in the quarter to sort of had a good quarter for gaming with the x box launch, but more broadly there is some murmurings out there about x box falling behind playstation. If you look at the sort of the bases of those two consoled, there is a murmurings about not having enough kind of exclusive games on the console. I know you sort of mix a bull leadership a little bit there. How do you feel about your positioning in.
From a narrow focus in the more broadly, how are you guys feeling about your position in the home if you will when I go home I'm talking to election that talking to court on it is thats something that that you're comfortable with where we are today that's something we should see improving on going forward basis. Thanks keep so let me take both of those questions. So on gaming, we feel good about x box one x.
Premium console launch. We also feel got the volume we got the war x box 1s, because we always wanted him effect of the premium called sold driving even lower end consol, because that creates.
For gaming for us, but our real our strategy going forward is not only to do great work on the comps sold for to complement that with the work we are doing on the pc pc gaming is growth market. And so therefore, you see us whether its subscription off, but then its all streaming efforts that are increasingly bringing the console plus pc together, and then not stopping there, but.
Devices and, for example, mobile but mind craft on mobile we just launched in fact in the last quarter in China obvious seeing tremendous growth of mind graphic expansion on mobile platform in China. So overall, you will see us do good work on council will compete there. But more importantly, we have a much more brought a gaming view in terms of what Val.
Without subscription services streaming services across all devices, and one other point, I think I made in my remarks earlier is gaming also is a growth area for azure. In other words, we have now increasing past services that we are going to reinforce the azure and attract more game developers. Some of the know how that we have from x box is not just about the x box, but its going to.
First across the board, so that I think we'll also trends and our leading to even media company. So we are very excited about some of what we can get out of our investments in gaming. So thats a focus on gaming into the court on a in home. Now, I think is probably important. Although the question all off you off did now only but my investment so much broader. In other words, I first start by saying let's make sure.
I capability whether it's speech whether ultimately even image recognition and dialogue management, because right now most assistance of fairly dom in terms of just doing one to dialogue, but where we want to go with multi turn dialogue and that requires real natural language understanding. So all of those investments, for example are available on azure as cognitive, sir.
Even referenced in my remarks, how when health GAAP people are using those to build thoughts and skills and agents that's where we will make sure we do our best but building blocks and I work of course, it would manifest for off with court on a as an agent from microsoft that has some special skills, especially around that crossover between work in life.
And then knowledge or smarts come from the data access to have, in our case, its going to be about things that I didn't office 3. 6. 5, the people places things and how we reason about it and help users, whether that at home or whether they did work. Lastly, even webcams two devices, we want to take an approach that brings all assistance. Thats why we are working.
Al aqsa, we would well comment on our devices because we believe in a world where our own assistance should be available everywhere, and so she had other assistance be available on our devices were says thinking that the endgame here is about speaking are doing one turn dialogues on one speaker in one hole that's, just not our vision.
Will move to the next question please. Thank you. Our next question comes from line of Mark logan. Whatever may be please proceed with your question no problem. Thank you. Congrats first on the great quarter, and Chris, thanks and congratulations on the new position should be greatly successful sofya ... like to ask a question can you give a sense of.
What is the adoption of azure in the us versus international that just new revenue point of view, but in terms of the mix of premium workloads types of workloads at said, or how should we think of where we are in that process? I would say the us has been a lead market in general when it comes to.
To technology and architectural paradigm adoption by deflect take something like I or the higher level services are on data. We clearly see first things happening in in you ask and quickly followed by geographies like Germany in the uk that also done workloads like the I r workload where we do see an.
Advanced action in countries like Germany, especially or with the industrial customers in terms of swaps Mark factories Japan, but I think broadly I dont see any difference than say what we used to see or what we still on our sober or any other technology adoption curves and they have differences in industry.
Different industries have strong in different parts of the global so, and then they they represent different use cases in terms of the components of azure that get used from thank you for like you. Thanks, mike we'll we'll take the next question. Please prairie. Thank you. Our next question comes from line of Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed great. Thank you too.
Amy, I guess you'VE been talking about and so as are about the commercial bookings were the expiry base was down over year over year gun a year over year basis. IM just wondering if you look ahead to 2009 pain, is there anything you could share with those about the size of the expiry base in that period just that we could think about it? I know you don't v guidance that far up, but just as we start to think about thinking about further out growth, and then I guess the other question would be.
You mentioned better IP spending, but just also given the significant savings companies in the us are going to be seeing due to lower tax bills. Is there any early feedback from partners? Our customers about the rate that this might be reinvested back into IP spending and digitisation? Thank you, thanks, Heather.
General fy'19 will have a higher base the in fy'18, just as you start to think through the impacts on bookings for the next year, and as we talked about q three has that same attribute it is higher than it was a year ago. Q two the reason we called it out, obviously, because it was such an outlier. And if you look back 3 years, so it's just sort of how this yeah, expiry base works.
Performance. This quarter was really strong compared to 3 years ago. So I feel great about our sales execution is specially in terms of growing the recapture rate at accounts to your question on the demand signals were seeing in the us, in particular, I think it is quite early, but as we've said, the us has been a good market for us.
Market for us for a good period of time, and it was again in q two, as we noted, and I think we are optimistic as we look to h two. When we see the signals we are seeing in the market, whether it's Pcs server or the or the cloud demand. Thank you.
Next question earlier .... Corp thank. You our next question comes from line of still, Winslow with wells. Fargo please proceed. Hi. Thanks thanks for taking my, question and congrats not just on the income statement. Health obviously the balance sheet were obviously the commercial I was only -5% for so you guys. Seven so. I congrats their. Focus this is actually on the commercial side of, it specifically on on, office obviously office. 3. 6 5. Revenue.
Pay see growth there. We'VE talked about the past with pricing, but if I just look at all so overall office on the commercial side, up temp up 10% of the same payments q one when you all think about going forward, just a mix of those two obviously the on prem business still declining in the high teens. And then office 3. 6. 5 growing rapidly. How do you think about just the blended growth of office commercial in the puts and takes there?
This is this is one where I tend to what I think about that 10% number it it really is same way. I think about office three 65 our goal and I think the real opportunity that remains with the officer and 65% and microsoft 365 going forward is our ability to continue to grow the install base and to all.
To new to grow our arpu, the combination of those two things and the opportunity we see is the reason in the sales remark that we didn't July, we continue to put resources and sales resources, the hind collaboration and communication and so many of the important workloads that allow.
To give great value to customers and even started to see at this quarter as reporting out till we saw a little bit more impact of q five this quarter in arpu than we had been sang it's been in the market a while we're seeing that momentum. The value all up of you five not just from an office perspective from microsoft is 65 perspective with security and management.
Well as some of the newer products that are getting some strong adoption like teams. I think we've got a really good about where we are and the value in our opportunity, both from from small business up to the large enterprise from first line workers to do all of these do all these things that continue to execute well, so the guide certainly implies that continued optimism.
Thanks. Thanks. So we will go to the next question please. Thank you. Our next question comes from line of ramo than shell with Barclays. Please proceed. Thanks for taking my question, and all the best for you, Chris, I just wanted to double click on the productivity gains. You seeing the cloud, especially on azure. Can you talk a little bit of bounded drivers? Dear I know, one is.
Build out pattern was different than some of your competitors. So were you filling capacity, but also talk a little bit about what you're seeing in terms of how you are delivering services in azure, and how thats evolving. Thank you. I mean overall you'll be did take an approach that we want to make sure we meet the real world needs across the globe and will continue to do salt. When we look at our.
Then we want to make sure but the data center regions meet the needs of our customers globally and across both consumer workload and enterprise workloads were real data sovereignty requirements and speed the light on issues are all ready relevant. Having said that the way it fills up his by the value add that we can do.
That's why the mix of these higher level services, especially around data, and I is definitely driving a lot more consumption of our higher level services and even something like coyote. They are not just add the consumption meters, but they're also got Saas like qualities to them. So I feel very very good about ultimately having innovation.
Both the consumption of more higher level services and then also making sure that we are available in all parts of the world where the demand is going to spread too, because we're in the very very early innings of essentially this new cloud our growth and there is only going to be increasing demand as there's more digitisation of ever.
Every factory and the hospital and saw on so I think we have a long way to go to still Philip and I would say the way to think about that, and that you see it in the Gross margin percentage is that and the improvements we'VE continue to see is the azure premium revenue growth. Excluding the overall revenue growth that actually is a benefit to the Gross margin rate, then again.
Have done through the supply chain. So while we have a signal kamen, you see a very quick turn from demand signal to us having servers in place and ready to be utilised very quickly that work continues and the team has on a really nice job. And then as well software improvements to continue to go on to increase our a bill.
Run more on Less those taken together continue to show Gross margin improvement doubly. Thank you. Thanks very well. We'll go to the next simply thank you. Our next question comes from line of Gregg moskowitz with cowen and company please proceed. Okay. Thank you very much. Amy, I like to follow up on heathers question because its really difficult to grow. Comer.
By mid single digits constant currency in the face of 20 or so declining exploration. And so I'm wondering looking beyond this quarter, if you could expand on how commercial bookings growth x renewals is trending. In other words, are you getting more separation if you will between reported growth and growth excluding renewal activity?
Take a shot the way I think about bookings growth every quarter. As you tend to look at a couple things, and I would say I start with renewals, not just id we're in new the contract, but how many new products new services did we add to that contractor? We expand our footprint, our percentage of the I't budget at a customer. Do they rely on us for more products and more sir.
This quarter is a good example of that happening. And if you think about the connection to why that happens it's not just the terrific engineering work that we'VE done in product value is also the investments that we'VE made to put resources and some of these larger accounts to continue to add new workloads that are only possible in the cloud, and VE add resources that we are seeing the rev.
Should in that way, so that I think feels very good from a resource allocation and return perspective. And so then the next component obviously, as being able to grow just brand new accounts. Are we growing customer base is are we penetrating segment, and you also saw that in the quarter, so at a high level, you can neither sort of add more expand.
You get to add a new customer and both of those are motions that we focus on and I feel caught our execution. I think there's and you'll see that dynamic. So at the expiry basis, a little bigger, you would expect obviously a number bigger lesson that on the booking side and when expiry rates as growth is it's really about the delta between the two, as you note, and our execution this quarter was quite good, but its come from sustainable invest.
Sales technical resources, and then the engineering to deliver differentiated value at the customer very helpful. Thank you. Thanks wrecked. We will take the next question please. Thank you. Our next question comes from line of kash rangan with bank of America Merrill lynch, please proceed with the thought of my second mine, on your allocated says that the mind crept to the best thing for as bright and evolve.
Whatever it is congratulations. A serious question is cash repacked creation, obviously microscope as ready to bring back a lot of money and wondering what the priorities of the company are with respect to doing a large strategic gale are not so perhaps and perhaps even share repurchases and dividends clearly is just once in a lifetime opportunity and there's a lot that can be done curious.
Thank you so much have actually that Amy, and I think this number one I would say we have when we have seen an opportunity to invest. We have not really waited for tax reform to do that our opportunity to eat am really the once in a lifetime opportunity is really the technical transition.
From ation that's occurring now, and so we've invested to make that when we've made acquisitions when they made sense, we have used the capital markets and the debt market to fund those to make sure that we made the right investments to grow our business, and so for us. We also didn't way when we thought about capital return. Even this quarter, we returned.
All of our free cash flow generation in dividends and share repurchase and we've been on that path for a number of years. Now that being said, I am pleased obviously to be able to access the cash more easily and not have to go through the debt market to be able to make these choices whether its investment in ourselves and the returns use.
In this quarter in revenue growth, whether its the acquisitions like lng 10 that are performing better than we expected, and I think today, we would even say it's a more strategic asset, then we even maybe thought a year ago in terms of the power of it to add to our graph in our understanding and then be able to return capital. So for me, while I appreciate.
Spirit behind the question for us we have felt and necessity to do that for years as a part of total shareholder return, and our commitment to do that, and I think we've done a good job and I'm proud of what we've done and I'm proud and excited for what we can continue to do ....... Corp terrific thanks so much if, you cash we will take the next. Question please.
We will move to next question please our right. Thank you. Our next question comes from line of Michael in them up with credit Suisse please proceed. Thanks for taking my question. This one's for a me about the officers 65 commercial are there any limitations other than storage related workloads that would limit office?
Commercial Gross margin from reaching say 80 over time and what are some of the current limitations on that Gross margin that you think could be improved upon for the to work higher than 70% over time? Thanks, thanks. You are right in general we're close like exchange and increasingly share point which we have seen some really great encouraging numbers on usage of share point in our.
Five consumer commercial base those do have storage requirements and so you're absolutely right. They are slightly different than many of the very high level Saas were closed that you see, but we still do have room which I think its really the core of the question. We still have some room to improve that office three 65 commercial Gross margin from the new were.
Did which have even more of this pure Saas like workloads, and aside from office in that same segment of dynamics, who are linked den with both have those Saas like margins, and can and we see opportunity to both improved owes as well. So I dont think there is necessarily a level but there are certainly room even within the storage heavy.
I mean I would just add that there is not specifically to the Gross margin question of the extensive made sure of microsoft three 6. Just what we think of it all up in that context, Amy already referenced how small businesses that perhaps never did advanced workloads are now able to do so emerging markets that never did are able to do.
Vault, whether it's on first line work, as we know had any solutions for the first find work and so there is a market expansion in terms of users, and this effect accession of the local loads that they can use or the higher levels of this is the other thing is office by itself you've talked about storage it's an interesting question to say what is being stored in office in meetings going forward?
The home office or people calling in all things like mixed reality being used in meetings it's a very different it's not about you sitting in front of word and entering taxed that's, not the full limit of off as offices about any people collaborating in voice or in with even computer vision and many other raise that I think collaboration will happen.
Expensive you much my guy ... for infrastructure, data I in terms of human activity that gets digitized at work and at home is something that we are going after with microsoft. 3. 6. 5 thanks for taking my. Quaking thank. You Michael will down to our last question'l please click move to.... corp thank you are in last question will come online. Of al.
For jaffray. Please proceed, hey, guys. Thank you for taking my question. So that I want to ask you about as rest acc adoption. You mentioned it was head of your expectations on the call. And I guess if you think about your early traction with service providers and how you are empowering them to build these as are capable data centers globally maybe longer term? How should we think about the impact of this on azure hyper growth durability beyond fiscal 18?
Scale see our overall vision for how computing evolved is that its going to be more distributed not let distributed let's just take, for example, what is happening in a factory in a factory one thing that is a secular is that they're putting Zapata not the most senses a lot of these sensors today.
Rendezvous rings all of that data straight to the cloud, as you do more of that what happens is you need to him? And then you start doing sense of fusion, which is your multiple senses that you want to be able to feuds or and take action at the speed of light gets in the way so they want local compute, and so in order to have that local compute in some of these factories with millions of sensors, you may in fact need.
So it is not just about old workloads and service providers and essentially hybrid computing. As we understand that, when I think about hybrid computing, at least in the fullness of time it's more of the future are distributed computing where there is a cloud, there is an edge and even the edges, not just one single edge, but it's got a typology associated with it going all the way to the sensors whether its at home with its in a hospital whether it's.
So where are we want to end up, which is a true distributed computing fabric that the world needs in order to be a digitally transform how one quarter to quarter will they be volatility chefs changes that's all going to be the case, but we we see the path of and merge pretty clearly into where are we need to go? Okay? Thank you.
That wrapped up secured a portion of states earnings call thank you for joining us today. We look forward to seeing many of you at the coming months that various investor conference for the meant. It can find the details on the micro dire website. Thank you. Thank you. All. Thank you all thanks. Chris. Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time, thank you for your participation.
