Greetings and welcome to the microsoft fiscal year 2018. The third quarter earnings conference call at this time, all participants are in a listen only mode. A question and answer session will follow formal presentation. If anyone should require operator assistance. During the conference, please press star zero on your phone. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host my expense or general manager of investor.
Thank you, you may begin good afternoon. And thank you for joining us today. On the calls me our sought an adult, chief executive officer. Amy hood, chief financial officer, frank road, chief accounting officer and current in France w. E. General counsel and corporate secretary, on the microsoft investor relations website, you can find our earnings press release and financial saberi slide deck, which is intended to supplement.
Marks during today's call and provides a reconciliation of differences between the gap in non GAAP financial measures. Unless otherwise specified, we refer to non GAAP metrics on the call. The non GAAP financial measures provided and I'll be considered as subsidy for are superior to the measures of financial performance prepared, in accordance with the gap. There included as additional clarifying items to gain investors and further understanding the company's third.
Quarter performance, in addition to the impact that these items and events had on the financial results. All growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of last year. Unless otherwise noted. We will also provide growth rates in constant currency. When available as a framework for assessing how our underlying business is performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. Where growth rates are the same in constant currency, we refer?
We will post our prepared remarks to our website immediately following call until the complete transcript. Syrup is available. Today's call is being webcast live in recorded. If you ask a question that will be included in our live transition in the transcript, and in any future use to the recording. You can replay the call me to trend and view the transcript to them. Microsoft investor relations website during this call, we will be making forward looking statements which.
Projections are other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release in the comments made during the conference call in in the risk factors section of our form 10 k forms 10 q and other reports and filings with the securities and exchange commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward.
And with that I'll turn the call over to such a thank you, mike, and thanks to everyone on the phone for joining. It was an another strong quarter the result of picking the right secular trends delivering differentiated innovation and focused execution that results in increased engagement and usage.
Intelligent cloud in the intelligent edge era is already upon us. It represents a tremendous opportunity. If we took significant steps this quarter to put this at the forefront of everything we do realigning are in dire engineering organization to accelerate innovation and better serve the needs of customers and partners with that is the backdrop I want to highlight key areas of innovation and growth.
Optimal solutions creating a modern workplace. Where people can do the best work requires the right culture and the right technology microsoft's three 65 helps every organization involved and employees with a I back tools that are lock creativity, increased teamwork and fuel innovation, all the while ensuring compliance and protecting data from new cyber threats. Mm.
Is a clear leader in clouds security advanced. I reasons over 102 billion to signals each month to identify a normal lease auto made detection and help customers respond to cyber threats. Just last week we announced new value for customers microsoft secure score attacks, similar later, and windows defender atp automatic detection and remediation.
Cities, as well as they knew open API for the intelligence security graph. We also built compliance capability directly into our cloud services thousands of organizations a using the recently launched compliance manager with new information protection scandal and built in classification capability to help prepare for gdp on.
Pre, hence IV approach and proactive protection or one reason coca cola chose microsoft cloud for the digital transformation. 1 year in teams is rapidly become the hob 14 look more than 200000 organizations in 181 markets use teams from mask to general motors team.
Hubble for a broad spectrum of calling in meeting room devices were also building a high powered services into teams. We have integrated microsoft stream our enterprise video so this into teams for transcription in time coating of recorded meetings. We have added new facial recognition capabilities which all attribute remarks to specific meeting attendees, and we are adding new court on a capability to make calls.
Or initiate three rate, calling just using your voice all this innovation is driving customer usage. Windows 10 continues to gain traction in the enterprise with windows 10 commercial monthly active devices up 79% year. Oh real office, three 65 commercial now has more than 135 million monthly active users and off.
Consumers subscribers increased to $30.6 million now I'll turn to linked in and business applications from. The start we. Recognize the opportunity for linked in and microsoft to combined forces to create economic opportunity for every member of the global workforce and enabled professionals to be more productive and successful a little over.
We feel great about the value we are delivering for members, customers and shareholders are integration model has enabled linked in to accelerate growth, while retaining its member first details results are ahead of expectations across all lines of business with revenue growth of 37% year. Oh really, we saw a record levels of engagement again this quarter with said.
More than 30% year over are driven by innovation across the platform. This increased engagement is driving strong demand for sponsored content and marketing solutions and record levels of the job postings and job. Visitors again this quarter in talent solutions shifting to business applications dynamics, 3. 6. 5 is gaining traction is a third commercial cloud growth engine.
To 5%. This quarter, we unleashed away will be. I innovation in dynamics with hundreds of new capabilities to transform sales and automate marketing with office three 65 embedded inside dynamics. Will productivity relationship analytics for sales and marketing leverage the microsoft graph and data from social networks to improve customer relationships.
To bleed scoring helped sellers identify and focused on high quality leads food investing in our business applications platform capabilities across power be. I power apps flow and a common data model. Now customers can extend dynamics 3. 6. 5 office 3. 6 5 and quickly build applications using data from across the organization, as well as the third party data with minimal.
The new power platform enables customers like into cars, a leading European auto parks company to go from paper to digitized workflows within days versus months, with with the rapid growth of power be I we are now the lead a in business analytics in the cloud now I'll turn to infrastructure and I platforms are architectural advantage.
Can stack from the cloud to the edge is resonating with customers without a jewel revenue growth of 93%. This quarter. Recent CIO surveys from our leadership position in hybrid develop of productivity, trusted security in compliance a new workloads, such as IAT and ayad the edge. We made the right investment decisions and they're having an impact increasing our overall she.
Spending market, our recent data center expansion, including the united Arab Emirates and Switzerland brings our total number of regions to 50 more than any other cloud provider and the additional availability zones provide the most comprehensive resiliency in the industry, but we also continue to see strong customer demand.
Stack across industries and unlocking new workload scenarios across hybrid an edge, industrial, I a team is transforming the rules of manufacturing fueling cloud in edge, innovation, accelerating the evolution of digital factories in enhancing supply chain performance as variety and as the stack enabled customers in partners to build industrial.
That run to the edge, so operators on the factory floor and manage devices and analyzed data in real time and hollow Lens is quickly becoming an indispensable tool as we take digital twin technology to the next level with are also innovating in silicon to help customers realized the promise of a connected world of devices and things I just announced as just.
First of its kind, highly secure edge solution that combines chip design and diety operating system and cloud services to secure more than nine billion microcontroller powered device is entering the market each ear and we're already seeing rapid customer adoption of IRT scenarios Toyota material handling in Europe is using a job as well as hollow months to.
Are you have the future using ai drones learn complex frosts to seize to automate the floor, the factory increasing supply chain and warehouse efficiency and microsoft in ABBR partnering to push the boundaries of smart manufacturing for industrial automation, we're investing to make azure the best cloud for enterprise data states in Less than a year.
Most DB, the first globally distributed multi model and multi model database exceeded 100 million in annualized revenue as your database for my sequel and post crest. Sequel makes it even easier to bring open souls forward applications through azure expanding our opportunity in the space we are seeing our.
No azure data Briggs for data preparation, advanced analytics and machine learning scenarios. We continue to innovate to democratize ai more than one million developers have already use cognitive services to quickly and easily create a I applications, and we are more services than any other cloud provider our .... Box so this is nearly. 300.
Up more than 150% year. We have microsoft translate to bring the eye power translation to developers where the data is whether that is in the cloud or on the edge. And just last month, we reached human parity in language translation, a new milestone. In addition to our previous human parity achievements in object recognition speech, recognition and machine reading comprehension. We were all.
In machine learning tools adoption with 10s of thousands of customers using azure ml. Finally, we are innovating with new GPUNFPGA based offerings to needed ai infrastructure for both training and in France, I'm excited to share more about our cloud, and I innovation, our developer conference next month thet built now to game.
We continue to pursue are expensive opportunity in gaming from the way games are created and distributed to how they have played in viewed. We had one of the best quarters in gaming with strong revenue performance and record levels of engagement. Software and services revenue grew 24%, as we continue to attract retain and deepen user reset relationships across x box live game.
And mix them and x box lie monthly active users grew to $59 million up 13%. Our new first party games seeps drove gameplay across windows stand and x box one and addition to nearly $10 million of viewing on services like mix. In its very first week, our results speak to the strength of our platform and services for both for.
Third party experiences and we will continue to invest in our platform and he answering our cloud services with the eye capabilities for developers to quickly build and monetize games across p c console and mobile. In closing intelligent cloud and intelligent edge represents a tremendous opportunity for our customers. It comes with a responsibility to ensure.
In technology, we are working to instill the trust in three key areas. The first his privacy, we recognize of privacy is a fundamental human right, and we have consistently acted accordingly off success is grounded in our customer success we've been working towards the may 25th gdp are implementation.
2016, with hundreds of engineers across the company working on end to end privacy architecture, and will ensure that all our products and services our gdp on compliant for customers. We will provide robots tools backed by our contractual commitments to help them comply with the GDPI. In fact, for most customers, it will be more effective and Less costly to host the data.
Gdp, our compliance cloud then to develop and maintain gdp, our compliance tools themselves. Second cybersecurity in response to escalating cyberattacks around the world. We are leading a bold initiative to defend and protect our customers. We recently letter coalition of 34, global technology and security companies in signing the cybersecurity tech record.
Important first step by the industry to help create a safe will and more secure online involvement for everyone. Finally, we recently established the ai and effects in engineering and research committee at microsoft to ensure we always advance I in an ethical and responsible way to benefit our customers and the brought us a. Sigh.
This includes new investments in technology to detect and address Bias in I systems microsoft spence for trust and will continue to be a differentiating focus for us moving forward with that I'll handed over to me to cover our financial results in more detail and share our outlook and I look forward to rejoining for your questions. Thank you saw here and good afternoon everyone our third quarter revenue.
Point. $8 billion, up 16% and 13% in constant currency, with better than expected performance across all segments, Gross margin increased 16% and 13% in constant currency. Operating income increased 23% and 20% in constant currency. Earnings per share was was 95.75. 36% and 31% in Compton.
From a geographic perspective, we saw broad based strength across markets of all sizes, benefiting from the positive global corporate spend environment growth in cloud services increased. Our commercial annuity mix up 2. Year over year, 2089% along with healthy renewals, our sales teams and partners drove a higher volume of new business leading to commercial bookings growth.
% and 18% in constant, currency commercial on earned came in slightly above our expectations due to f, x growing 20% and 17% in constant. Currency our commercial cloud revenue was $6 billion. Dollars increasing. 58 8% and 55% in constant currency highlighted by healthy growth in the us. West.
And the uk we again improved commercial cloud Gross margin now at 57% up 6. With improvement in each cloud service, most, notably as we outperformed our expectation on company Gross margin finishing the quarter at 65%. We are up slightly year over year with improvement in our productivity and business processes segment from office three 60.
And link den offset by a decline are intelligent cloud segment driven by a Greater mix of our revenue FX positively impacted revenue growth by 1. More than expected 3. At the company and productivity and business processes level and 2. From both intelligent cloud. In more personal computing, FX added 2. Of growth, the cogs and operating expenses 1. More.
Operating expenses grew 10% and 8% in constant currency, as we continue to invest in commercial sales capacity, cloud engineering and link dense, even with accelerated pace of spend. We increased operating margin 2. Year over year, a direct result of our focused investments to drive top line growth now to the segment.
Revenue from productivity and business processes was approximately $9 billion, increasing 17% and 14% in constant currency, with better than expected results from office three 65 commercial and link dense office commercial revenue grew double digits again this quarter, a 14% and 12% in constant currency unk, including a couple of points from a Greater mix of contracts with higher in.
Emission office three 65 commercial revenue grew 42% and 40% in constant currency, with continued installed base growth and arpu expansion, driven by customer migration to our premium workloads, an e. 3nd. Five office three 65 commercial seats grew 2008% in line with the expected trend given the increasing size of the installed base office can so.
Increased 12% and 9% in constant currency, driven by recurring subscription revenue and growing overall installed base. Our dynamics business accelerated this quarter growing 17% and 14% in constant currency, driven by dynamics three 65 growth of 65% 62% in constant currency, linked in revenue grew 34.
And 33% in constant currency with more than $1.3 billion in revenue we. Continue to see outperformance across all segments with, record level of engagement segment. Gross margin dollars increased, 18% and 15% in constant currency Gross. Margin percentage increased with margin improvements in office three 65 commercial and linked in offsetting the.
Cloud revenue. Operating expenses grew 14% and 12% in constant currency, as we continue to strategically, invest and linked in commercial sales capacity and cloud engineering. Operating income increased 23% and 19% in constant currency. The intelligent cloud segment delivered $7.9 billion of revenue increasing, 17% and 15.
To currency exceeding expectations due to our on premises server business server products and cloud services revenue grew 20% and 17% in constant currency to $6.3 billion driven, by continued strong as. A revenue growth of 93% 89% in constant currency on a significant revenue base or on premises serve.
3% and 1% in constant currency, driven by customer demand for hybrid solutions, as well as increasing virtualization needs resulting in the uptake of premium versions. Enterprise services revenue increased 8% and 5% in constant currency, with growth in premium support services and microsoft consulting services more than offsetting the continued decline in customer support agreements for windows server 2003.
Segment Gross margin dollars grew 16% of 14% in constant currency, and Gross margin percentage declined with the growing mix of azure. I ask him past revenue, mostly offset by another quarter of material improvement in azure Gross margin. Operating expenses increased 9% and 7% in constant currency, driven by our continued investment sales capacity and cloud engineering.
Operating in calm increased 24% of 21% in constant currency. Now to the results of more personal computing revenue from the segment was $9.9 billion up, 13% and 11% and Compton currency with, significantly better than expected results in gaming windows, commercial and surface windows OEM revenue increased 4% this quarter.
Pro revenue grew 11%. In line with a strong commercial p c market. We continue to see healthy enterprise demand for windows 10 benefiting our OEM partners o of non pro revenue declined this quarter by 8% below the consumer p c market, driven by a higher mix of overpriced licenses and continued pressure and the entry level price category.
Tory levels were within the normal range windows commercial products and cloud services increased 21% and 17% in constant currency from strong double digit Billings, as well as the higher mix of in quarter reckoning from multiyear agreements. The fundamentals of this business remained healthy was installed base growth and adoption of our security solutions. As a reminder, under account.
Six. The windows commercial growth rate will have significant variability quarter to quarter due with relatively high mix of on premises licensing revenue search revenue x, tack grew 16% and 14% in constant currency, with higher revenue per search and search volume driven by being performance in the us and international markets. Subsurface revenue grew 32.
2007% in constant currency with better than expected performance from surface book, as we continue to transition lay as products in our portfolio and against the prior year, comparable impacted by product end of life cycle dynamics, gaming revenue increased 18% and 16% in constant currency, due to x box software and services revenue growth of 24% to 21% in constant currency.
And digital distribution, as well as record levels and engagement, driven by a third party title contributed better than expected software and services revenue. We grew x box live monthly active users by 13% to $59 million will use or expansion across x box, one windows 10 and mobile platforms. Segment Gross margin dollars increased 13% and 11% in constant.
In line with revenue growth segment Gross margin percentage was relatively flat year on year. Operating expenses increased 5% in 3% in constant currency, from investments and engineering across gaming search, and I operating income grew 24% and 20% in constant currency. Now back to total company results in line with our expectations.
Expenditures on a sequential basis with $3.5 billion invested to support current and future growth of our cloud offerings cash. Paid for private property and equipment was $2.9 billion. Cash flow. From operations was up 14% driven by collections from strong Billings growth free cash. Flow of $9.2 billion grew. To slower.
% due to an increase in cash use for property plant in. Equipment other in common expenses was approximately $350 million from net recognize gains on investments and income from dividends and interest partially offset by interest. Expense our effective tax rate came in at 14% due to a benefit from an. R d tax. Credit we return to. $6.3 billion to shareholders through.
Share repurchases. Increasing total shareholder return by 37%, we nearly double double our year over year amount. Fi back accelerating our pace from the prior quarter and now have roughly $30 billion remaining of our current. $40 billion share repurchase authorization now Less turned to next quarters outlook. First on FX, assuming current rates remain say.
Effects to increase revenue growth by 3. Cox by 1. And operating expenses by 1. Second, we again expect strong performance from our commercial business with solid execution in our largest quarter of the year. We expect commercial on our revenue to be up 38. 209% sequentially third on capex.
All growth in capital expenditures on the cruel dollar basis, as we continued to see strong demand signals globally. Finally, we expect commercial cloud Gross margin to be roughly flat to q three representing another quarter of material year over year improvement, even with increasing azure revenue mix now to the segments and productive it.
Yes, as we expect revenue between $9.5 billion $9.7 billion. We expect, office commercial growth rates to normalize as we do not expect the same level of in quarter recognition on multiyear contracts as we. Saw in q three dynamics should see another quarter of double digit revenue growth driven dynamics, three 65 and linked in growth should remain high in intelligent.
We expect revenue between 8.9. $1 billion with another quarter of server products and cloud services revenue growth in the high teens as, our hybrid cloud leadership continues to be a different share for customers we. Expect a total as your revenue growth to reflect a balance of our continued strength of infrastructure data, and applications services and a moderating growth.
Are based services like EMS, and more personal computing. We expect 10.3 to $10.6 billion. Across both OEM pro and non pro we anticipate trends in q three to continue into q four in our devices business we expect. Surface revenue growth in the high teens as we, continue to transition to latest products in our portfolio.
Next to us he should see another mid. Teens revenue growth quarter as it has the entire year. In gaming. We expect a higher revenue growth rate in q three as we continue to benefit from third party game title performance and user engagement on our platform. We expect cogs between 9.609 $8 billion including, 1. Of growth from f x.
Operating expenses of 9.8. To $9.9 billion. With 1. Of growth from f x this would. Place a slightly above the high end of our prior range for the full year operating expense growth due to the impact from f x an incremental, revenue driven expenses that support our continued strong top line growth in four. We expect, other income and expense to be approximately.
$80 million, as we continue to take games or equities portfolio and earned dividend and interest income as we have in prior quarters, we expect our effective tax rate in q four were to be approximately 16% with some volatility in the final quarter of our fiscal year. Finally, I want to offer a few early thoughts on fy'19, assuming the macro environment remains consistent.
Of the key drivers of our business should remain intact revenue growth will continue to be driven by the transition to cloud services. And within our commercial business, strong execution and our differentiated hybrid position should bribe continued high teens growth in our server products and cloud services revenue KPI office three 65 dynamics three 65.
Should also continue to drive double digit revenue growth in our productivity and business process. The segment to Gross margin percentage of every commercial cloud service will continue to improve with more improvement in as your I asked him pass consumption based services and Less improvement in our per user Saas services, while we expect continued improvement in the overall commercial cloud Gross.
The revenue mix shift to as usual, moderate the rate of improvement relative to fy'18. We will continue to grow our investment in capital expenditures to meet the growing demand for our cloud services. With the business results, we delivered and the tremendous opportunities. We see ahead. We will continue to see growth in operating expenses in key areas discussed, including link 10, we expect.
Expenses to be slightly negative in fy'19, as we not expect to have any significant equity games, and lastly, we continue to expect the full year fy'19 effective tax rate to be slightly below the new us corporate tax rate of 21% variability across the quarters, do the mix of cloud versus license revenue and the timing of aqua desks, and with that mike let's go to q a.
Thanks. Amy, well now move over to q a operator can you please repeat your instructions, ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we will be conducting the question and answer session would like to ask a question please press star one on your telephone keypad, a confirmation tone went to keep that your line is in view, you may press star to if we'd like to remove your question from the queue for participants using speaker equipment and may be necessary to pick up your handset beef.
Canes. Our first question is coming from the line of Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed with your question great. Thank you saw. T Amy, you guys are seeing a really nice acceleration and intelligent cloud Gross profit growth and with 15 straight quarters now have triple digit premium services growth in azure. I know you mentioned some some comment. Directional.
Margin ramp, but how do we think about the pace of the ramp and Gross margin expansion from here for this for azure, and particular, as you approach what we estimate to be roughly $8 billion business and annualized revenue, and I guess what the other thing that would be helpful as when you think of the cogs of commercial cloud, can you give us a rough ballpark of what percentage of cogs comes from capex depreciation?
So maybe I thought and then they will have you're going to fill the numbers. One of the things head up that's happening is that there is growth in azure across each of the legs, and I think said this before sometimes when you have new workloads in new customers on board are based start with in some sense, the os and the data more our blobs storage, but then.
Higher layer services like our cause most DB, or even some of our compute higher level services like in I so that I think will continue because we are still in the early innings of the cloud transition. We are investing aggressively whether its on the fee side or on capex side to attract more customers and more workloads book customer so they will have that the same profile.
Is low margin services. First higher margin services over time thats just inside of azure, and of course, you combine that with the rest, one of the things that I think should be fairly clear is the high correlation between our services in office 3? 6 5, as well as dynamics 3. 6. 5 around data, in particular with azure. So that's why we think of this is one.
Lay, but that should give you a feel for how customers are looking at it, and I think to your specific questions there were a couple in their Heather. And have you think about the portion of our commercial cloud Gross margins that comes from depreciation it's best to think of it as roughly half and actually it's been going up as we began to get scale through these service?
Over time actually some of the fixed costs, frankly, even in cogs tends to come down as a percentage overtime, because that should help you roughly to think about how much depreciation is of that number. Now. Would you think about some of the dynamics that we've been going through in the intelligent cloud segment particular the way I tend to think about that as you've seen and we are 20% growth this quarter in.
Product services KPI 17 on a constant currency basis in our sort of confidence that you should continue to see that, as I said into q four and then into fy'19 is well, I tend to think about that is will have significant revenue growth in that segment. What significant Gross margin dollars growth in that segment, and you actually continue to see operating margin dollars growth at significant in that segment, even as.
Vest intuit, given the top line signal if you think about Gross margins, in particular, what you'll see as you are continuing to be a growing percentage of the total revenue growth, so even with significant improvement again in what thought he was talking about some of the lower level. I ask him past services with an azure.
Inside you will see some Gross margin percentage pressure in that segment through 19, but with significant dollar growth.
Thanks, thanks other. We will take next question please. Thank you. The next question is coming from the line of moral or with alliance. Bernstein please proceed with your question. Thank you very much and congrats on the quarter capex increased significantly this quarter. 2.9 billion and, he said in cash on property and equipment we. Know that you build out you significantly invest in the data center footprint ahead of dim.
You don't filled out the equipment itself at four in advance is is there a lord corporate a government requirement? Or is that the acceleration and then data centers at ended up quizzing that lift or is there something else driving as a followup? How should we think about that for the next couple of quarters? Thanks.
Thanks for it. I actually didn't think of it as a significant change in trajectory from what we expected a year ago q three was actually a little low on a year over year base. I think it pops a little bit Mark. When on really a sequential basis, I actually don't think to me it looks out of sorts, especially with the type of demand. We're seeing not just for azure, but across all.
Our components those growth rates really at 58% on that total cloud number it's pretty good demand signal.
Basis. So I hear you on a year over year basis, but q three was a little funny a year ago on that front, and we continue to really monitor the actually cute month and that supply chain and what have you any? If anything? There is a lot of automation and demanded sensing capability. We have there and I would say Mark, while I appreciate your point that it takes.
Bill data centers in advance to the majority of the cost, obviously in a data center is in the equipment inside, and so, while this really is the majority of this spend is is servers perfect. Thank you, thanks, Mark. Operator please move to next question. The next question is coming from the line of Keith weiss.
Please proceed with your question. The excellent. Thank you guys for taking the question and really nice quarter across the board is really not much to pick on in this quarter. One of the highlights from my perspective is definitely Lincoln harm, and what seems to be an acceleration in revenue growth in Washington, so to target here one, where are we in terms of debt acquisition is still.
Operating fetters an independent company or re starting to see some of the synergies position to specifically revenue synergies come to their from maybe even on our distribution channel that they get from microsoft or product integration so of synergy started to kick in number. One number two given where we are in terms of the ma process on lengthen the appetite for further like large ma for from microsoft into going forward basis.
Thanks, Keith. For the question, let me start in the name you can add to this the first full it is very important for us to ensure that we did everything to enable linked in to keep that product and cultural eat also putting members first and innovating on their behalf in that was sort of our priority. 1. 2 and three and thats.
In their sessions growth engagement growth, their quality member growth, and obviously that all translates into the revenue growth, as well across all of the marketing solutions talents solutions and sales solutions. We also during that one you are done integrations you see I seed every day in my outlook mobile. I see it.
Navigator in dynamics, and so you will see and with windows stand. So you will see us continue to do these integrations that add value again to both the microsoft three 65 and dynamics users, as well as linked in members and clearly that's increasing engagement as well that obviously then translates into revenue growth of those.
So yes, revenue synergies showing up, but mostly because product synergies showing up and thats because of the product eat those of linked in around member. First is what we have maintained throughout this integration, and I would also add keys. The link 10 team is really done a tremendous job. So let me say after a year of working with them closely my appreciation and frankly.
A lot of inspiration that I think you've seen in our own product development has been their focus on users and how important it is and how focused they are on it in some of the products. I would urge people to look at the outlook, mobile experience and help really meaningful the experiences for the user in the member and I I think sometimes it's harder for us them.
Exactly what a revenue synergy means, but I think I look at this and say at 37% growth rate plus some of the integrations we'VE seen and the growth in uses and users have things like outlook mobile. I believe that we're probably a little bit on the front end of the revenue synergies you'll see and product over time when it comes to.
Appetite for'm ah I think it actually has remained unchanged, which is when things meet our criteria, and when we feel like it's in core areas for us were markets, our expanding where the companies have a unique assets.
We are ability to both execute on those and see them both execute on their own and execute inside microsoft actually feel still quite good that our we dont worry about our ability to do them. But I wouldn't say that he knew this quarter and I think just dragged on that which is whether it's mind craft are linked in on many other acquisitions. We have done this thought of ... I think the key thing we are very rare focused. On.
Make this culturally accretive management teams accretive as well as revenue and that's where we building good muscle, and we will continue on that professional. Thank you very much guys. Thanks, Keith. We will take next question please. Thank you. The next question is coming from the line of colonel care said with deutsche bank. Please proceed with your question.
To start saw the team. Congrats on getting microsoft over 10% organic growth. Thats a big achievement for a company that you're a scale and it looks like you're expecting the same for for the June quarter. So congrats. So. I guess my question is in the spirit of this to a me on the overall growth margin trade off as you look into fiscal 2009, 18 any when I go back.
Say you had almost a year ago, I left thinking that your messaging was really that you are going to press on revenue growth and and not on big margin leverage. So. IM just wondering as we look into fiscal 2009 18. Is it correct to assume that thats a similar framework with the focus on top line growth and not to expect much in the way of of overall improvement in Gross margins thank.
Thanks coral. Yes, I think that's a fair interpretation of my commentary both last year ends which really speaks to consistency. I do believe that the market that which we are operating the set of assets we've picked the team we've built the investments we've made in our sales force, even some except the act.
Done. These are all showing up as topline revenue growth for us you you see it this quarter. You see it frankly in the guide, and I think your interpretation that our focus on being a growth company, even at our scale is certainly the right interpretation. Okay. Thanks for that. Thanks call.
Please move to next question. Thank you. The next question is coming from a line of Walter pritchard with citi. Please proceed with your question hi. Thank you I'm wondering if this combination, Amy and soft'd f you can talk about the forward view of azure growth in how we should think about the drivers, as we go into 19, new customers exists in consumption premium services, and I think we're going to.
Trait now, and we saw that with officers to 65 in the early days, how should we expect business sort of level out over time is making inevitably well as we look to next year?
Yeah, and I will start qualitatively and it's true that job we are at this point at scale on azure and with the very very high growth rates, but as I said, I think the key things that we think about his difference emotion of azure and each level, because thats what is super important for us as we compete in this market print and more importantly, for down on areas of differences, and we have so the first.
Infrastructure side itself with the combination of the edge and the cloud, I fully believe between as a stack and azure, as well as inclusive of ah silver's, we have the best crowd platform for what is going to be hybrid computing, and will continue Sean that so you will see growth which has got a different margin profile. The they are about that is the place which we are very exciting.
Lot two consecutive quarters of growth in our higher level services, but we now seeing some good scale for the first time talked about cosmos Devi. This was actually a database we just launched last year. I mean are being around data basis for a long time I've never seen a product that Scotland with this kind of scale this quickly, and so we are very bullish about what can happen in the higher levels are.
Continue to build on that our peace, but as I said, one of the key things is architecturally the way we build azure the way we build office 3 6. Why there may be build our gaming cloud. In the way we build even dynamics are all quite too much one architecture and and you see that even in the way customers use it so overall that deal.
Question on azure, the growth will moderate as the numbers become vague and there were already become very big. But that said we see plenty of opportunity for total Gross margin growth in terms of dollars, just because of the number of markets that we participated we can leave either. They never participated in the also all and Walter. I think they you see that show up.
At really, and then my conversation on the . 9. 19. Two saw his point really we talked about that server product unk API being highteens. Three rough 19. We are really confident and double digit growth and the bp segment with the components of office, three 65 dynamics, three and 65 and linked to end. So if you think about the.
Mary components of our commercial cloud overall we're certainly saying that its a big business growing very fast.
Not counting then at 58% growth, it certainly speaks to having a big bass and a big growth number on as you're you're right, it will moderate through next year, but because of the scale which its operating that's why you still see that server KPI remain at that high level we've announced the base growth, and so you will see also some different dynamics within that, as.
Revenue number softly I mentioned the layers of azure. If you think about the eye awesome past numbers, I would expect to be on the higher ended rose growth rates and some of the services that are more per user like like EMS, within the as reframe, you would expect that growth to moderate somewhat more quickly, just because it's a perceived business. You will.
Time see us be able to continue to add arpu and growth and those segments thinking that almost like an office business internally, we call that component part of our microsoft 365 value. Thats how we sell a decks tonally, even and so hopefully that helps give a little contacts to the number as well as our overall ability to continue to grow the sort of hybrid cloud opportunity high team.
Thank you, thanks, Walter. We will take the next question please say the next question is coming from the line of Phil. When flow with wells Fargo. Please proceed with your question, hey, thanks for taking my question, and congrats on a great quarter. So I think you touched on the synergies that you're saying between the new applications businesses and and like helping helping to to add winning, for your dog, just sort of high level and strategically about.
Enterprise applications and an azure and how have you kind of see the synergy a pencil he coming up between those especially when you think IML services of a kind of question is how important are how critical or applications like the growth that we are seeing in dynamics, etc. I mean one of the things that I talked about in my remarks. This time was Paula platform, one of those areas of in fact real break out grow.
In CA she can as being in ABI power apps and flow for the first time, in fact, in our own microsoft history, we have an extensive ability model that is the same for office three 65 and dynamics, 3. 6. 5. This being a dream unmindful of I dont know if for 15 years, probably and we have finally here and we are executing. Super well for the interesting thing is it's not just even.
Saas application. It is the extent stability model for every Saas application out, including a common data model. So I think that that's where the synergy lie because I starts with having a day to state that can really bring data from all of your application silos in some sense together so that you can start doing building either analytical power that you can then.
And put it in the hands of people using our b, I or run, I model at dollars or some prediction that you can deploy in your system, whether its forecasting sales lean scoring. What have you so that workflow we have every letter of it? We have the best deployment tools and development tools in azure. We out this common data model on top of this, we have the best be. I'll.
Technology, so that's what you're seeing increasingly as the synergy but most importantly, architectural benefit for customers, because by having incoherence around these wears as where you may feel like you're making some great best of breed sort of choices in individual layers, but he would bear that expense in your overall agility, as well as your overall management of.
And that's where I think we will be very differentiated great. Thanks thank let's move to next question. Please. Thank you. The next question is coming from the line of ross Macmillan with RBC capital markets.
Okay, we'll move onto the next question, which is coming from the line of brad reback with stifel, please proceed with your question. A great. Thanks very much. Maybe Amy quick question. The windows OEM pro business has an extraordinarily strong the last few quarters. Could you maybe give us just as of how penetrated you guys on the windows 10 and corporate upgrade cycle on the sustainability?
Us. Thanks, thanks spread. Let me first said, I wouldn't say penetrations the word for this. Let me talk about this in two or even a couple of component pause when you think about windows 10. What we've seen over the past couple of years is you're right a very strong enterprise deployments cycle and.
For that product inside enterprises, because of the security value prop of the product self when you see that deployment for security reasons and extra nallet he of that people often choose to upgrade MacHines in that, in that process, we'VE been good demand inside commercial.
Entities for and when they make those upgrades to buy windows Pcs and often surface devices in that choice. I think it's benefited our OEM partners and us the portfolio of devices that are available are incredibly compelling. I think our partners of debt a terrific job on that, as well. The overall economy is certainly also quite good.
And the installed base that actually gotten older and so I think you what you are starting to see is a process whereby there is a great product. There is a good macro environment and you've got customers who really want to move to a modern infrastructure, a modern infrastructure has to both be secure additive.
That can result as you're seeing that confluence of events in a very strong p c market with very strong pro performance in certainly the guide for your continues to imply all those factors great. Thanks very much thanks for taking the next question. Now please thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of Michael. Nemeroff.
Yes, please proceed with your question. Thanks for taking my question sat here and I mean can you help us understand the large revenue outperformance I'd for continued strong growth in gaming, and Amy, could you please give us a sense of the margin profile of the areas of gaming that exceeded expectations, and if you could also comment on the strength in the SPC margin in the context of the gaming margin as well? That would be helpful. Thank you very much yeah, and I can stay.
Because even on gaming very much like how we talk about some of our commercial segments, we have gotten the strategy which really helps us articulate bought the growth opportunity, as well as our investments across all of the various layers. So first is the console itself or the highest engagement consul out in the marketplace, so any time and new game whether its first body of the third part?
The fact that x boxes were the best engagement is driven benefits are so as a platform or that great growth area for us, but we dont stopped there, because now we have whether its x box live whether its game pass or mix. These are all additional opportunities to release of the game or I will as they play more games, or or watch games on.
So that's the other big opportunity for the last one which I think is new and is something which is already playing its dividends. On the average of growth side is we've, taking all the knowledge of what it means to build 21 of these first party titles of ours us and building it as a past service in azure our for game developers and the play five acquisitions speaks directly to that.
Those are all the various leverages we have n gaming, and you will see it in the MPC segment, and you will see it. As I said, increasingly lime even turn azure, and I think Michael if you don't mind, I am going to expand your question a little bit because I dont think the increase in the MPC guidance simply gaming. So let me talk a bit about the components and which 1s I think a bit more sustainable in which one may have a temporal nature.
The professor in q three and the guidance for q four shows actually for one performance and a number of places that we expect to continue OEM pro is a terrific example. For the reasons I just gave and brad's question windows commercial, which is really the business inside the enterprise of selling much of the secure revalue on a far more annuity like basis, we have.
Double digit Billings growth there, and we expect that to continue into q four as well. The next piece that I would say is a part of that sort of uplift in q four is our surface device the repair into surface, cook, too, as well as surface pro with l't he has been quite good, and you see us reflect that again in q four.
As the comparable gets a little bit more difficult than it was in q three for us. When you saw a very large growth rate were still expecting highteens there, then you get to that gaming component and specific thought it was talking about the x box software and services component is where I would expect to see the impact of the continuation of q three part of that I want to be very clear is can.
Even going back a few quarters that has been a double digit growth or it will be a double digit growth or there will be some volatility in the number like anything else and third party hit games. We will move it higher as they did this quarter, and we are expecting in q four, but there's also a really strong base to that business. That is the result of what thought just talking about in terms of having a vibrant.
With fans that believe in it and come to it with all the value that's been added that so helpful. Thank you very much in the great. Thanks. Thanks. Michael were moving next question please thank you. The next question is from the line of rocks exelon with RBC capital markets. Please proceed with your question so much all flee. The line is clear this time so such and Amy, I want.
Server products, which was striking growth this quarter, given the compound Amy, you talked about expected strength into fiscal q four and all of that I guess as testament testament to the sense of the kind of hybrid lead leadership. You have the two questions, though really is that strengths in server products, broad based across windows server, sequel, server, system center, etc.
Sort of Bias in the mix, a few will in terms of what's driving the strength and then such you you mentioned cost most DB, and that was a striking number to me as well on. I'm curious do you think now you have the multi model database in market that that can help you take market share within the data management database space? Thanks, yeah, ma on on the second 1.
Think that yes, I mean cause most DB is pretty unique capability or in the nation with everything else we do in both the data lair the ai layer and the infrastructure layer. I think we have a tremendous opportunity because, as I said, the IRA is mostly first our data area and that's where I think the opportunity lies, but to your pre.
Even debt and multiple trends here and Amy referenced it in his remarks, which is, for example, virtualization still continues to be a growth driver of silver products. The other growth driver of silver products is cybersecurity and the security value in also overs, so that's on the fact that we now have sequel and, for example, when you think about sequel itself it's a hybrid.
You can tear sequel databases with the cloud sequel is in I product, because we had one database that actually allows you to write python than our in situ a store procedures right in your database. So, for example, we talk about data and I close to data because computation will always go wherever data is and a lot of data shows up in relational data bases, and we have a growth driver.
And then there is the hybrid choice whether somebody is building a smart factory there now looking and say what is the sober I'd lie in the factory to manage the million dollars of sensors that event across the factory and that's, where address tax shows up so multiple drivers of what is essentially the silver and cloud number in combination and to your point on net.
The component the on prem component, even with the top herbal doing well, let me break side just common and sort of two drivers that have been actually more sustaining and, as across both windows in particular are also sequel, which are obviously the largest products within our Seri portfolio. The first exactly with hyper demand, we have something called. Highbrow.
Hybrid benefits. What it does is really provide confidence to our committed customers buying on prem servers that their transition to a hybrid to cloud over a period of their agreement is really about their choices their timelines in their confidence, and so with that white. Is he lets them ease.
Between windows or sequel to those same benefits and azure with a small uplift in price, I think that has actually been a core component. The second 1 was virtualization, drive or data center modernisation. Another one do move to prove me premium mix up of that so that, if you wanted to break down into two more sustaining things that those types of the.
Number great. Thanks, and this will be our last question. Thank our final question is coming from a line of kash rangan with bank of America Merrill lynch. Please proceed with your question. Last question will be the longest one really really really long. Thank you guys for getting in question. For you saw the eye as you made with ceos of large companies. So this is a recurring theme that we've been.
Other software company ceos the theme of digitisation can you help us understand just especially given that microsoft growth rate of accelerating where's the gdp growth it is as you'd p growth rate. So obviously the expanding our spending as a percentage of gdp or revenue average company revenue is going higher. So can you help us given new video prospect pretty unique help us understand?
Line of I't that we have been operating in it comes to a digital business transformation water, the phase one face to phase three initiatives like and where our companies like to spend more and what kinds of products and services that are new and are becoming or maybe you sell them today that come price that incremental swing factor over the baseline of what yesterday versus.
To go with digitisation of business processes. Thank you. Yeah, I mean I think when we talk to customers and seed CDO ceos what have you $3 for digital transformation all outcomes? In fact, everything that we do across our solution areas are all ingredients. I'll do helping our customers achieve digital transformation objectives on, for example, how do the n.
Summers. When I talked about cosmo's'd p growth costs must Devi happens to be one of the best date of products to be able to capture the signal of that you want around your customers from a variety of different sources that gun one example of it. The second piece is, of course, around empowering your employees. I mean one of the things that now is increasingly become number one price.
Ceo is to make sure that the right tools the right products are in front of their own employee, so the vacant do their very best walk and collaborate. So teams growth is a great example of how companies are modernizing their work for the with things like microsoft. 3. 6. 5 or the third one is operational efficiency when the dynamics 3, 6. 5 growth or ... IOD. Growth.
Taken every eye, but he projected ends up as a few service project. So thats a classic way. Somebody says let me send something predict something and then actually fix using feels so that's a transformational outcome will be a very well position and lastly, people are business models. You take somebody like an owl go a water. You could say that a company but now they're pure.
Service company, in other words, they put sensors that allow them to actually deliver a very differentiated business model that customers and so thats the transformational outcomes. We need and we feel we I'd microsoft were well positioned both with the technology, but also with our frontline sales capability service capability and partner capacity to best address the digital transformation needs.
Wonderful. It seems like CRMHCMERPITV of the providence that are going to be driving your growth. Thank you very much very useful insightful. Thanks cash they're upset the q a portion of today's earnings call. Thank you for us, and we look forward to speaking with already soon. You can find additional details at the microsoft investor sins website. Thanks everyone. Thank you, everyone, ladies amended.
Conference again, we thank you for your participation, and you may disconnect your lines at this time.
