Greetings and welcome to the microsoft of fiscal year, 2018 4th quarter earnings conference call at this time, all participants are non listen only mode. A question and answer session will follow all formal presentation. If anyone should require operator assistance. During the conference, please press star zero on your phone. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
To introduce your host Michael spencer. General manager investor relations thank you, sir, you may begin good afternoon. And thank you for joining us today. On the calls me our such in the chief executive officer, Amy, who, chief financial officer, frank grow, chief accounting officer and contracts, deputy general counsel and corporate secondary on the microsoft investor relations website, you can find our earnings press release and financial summary slide deck.
To supplement our prepared remarks during todays call and provides reconciliation of differences GGAAP and non GAAP financial measures. Unless otherwise specified, we will refer to non GAAP metrics on the call. The non GAAP financial measures provided should not be considered as a substitute for are superior to the measure of the financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. They are included additional clarifying items to eight investors and further understandings the company's 4th quarter performance.
In addition to the impact of these items and events hounds financial results. All growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of last year. Unless otherwise noted. We also provide growth rates in constant currency. One available as a framework for assessing how our underlying business performed, excluding the effect of Florence currency rate fluctuations. We are growth rates over the same cost currency. We refer to the growth rate loans. We will post our prepared remarks.
Light immunity following the call until the complete transcript is available today's call is being cast light on recorded. If you ask the question is included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and in any future use to the recording. You can replay the call and be the transcript on microsoft investor relations website during the call we will be making forward looking statements which are predictions, projections, and or other statements about future events these.
Current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release. In the comments made during this commons, fall and risk factors section of our form 10. K forms 10 q and other reports and filings with the securities exchange commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward looking statements and with that I'll turn the call over to such a thank you mike in.
Phone for joining on proud of our strong results this quarter and even more proud of what we have accomplished over the last 12 months, we delivered more than $110 billion in revenue for the fully a with double digit topline and bottom line growth and our commercial cloud business surpassed more than $23 billion in revenue for the year, with Gross margin expanding to $0 and 70%.
Strength of our results reflects accelerating innovation and the trust's customers are placing enough to fall off their digital transformation. I shed our vision for the intelligent cloud and the intelligent edge a little over a year ago, a vision that is now quickly becoming reality and impacting every customer in every industry. Everything we have accomplished. India has been about accelerating. Hourly.
New at a and the tremendous opportunity ahead, we focused on the right secular technology trends and growing markets and swallowed it up with solid roadmap execution, we be organized our engineering teams to break three of the categories of the past and better aligned with the emerging tech stock from silicon to ai. Twix.
To better serve the needs of our customers today and long into the future if we're oriented our sales and marketing, teens, adding industry and technical expertise to part, no more deeply with our customers on their digital transformation jenny's, and most importantly, we drove innovation to deliver differentiated value across the cloud and the edge. Now I'll briefly high.
Innovation. In momentum we introduced microsoft 36 five to empower employees in the modern workplace microsoft 3. 6. 5 is now a multibillion dollar business that gives our customers the path to the cloud and broadens our reach with new and under penetrated markets, including more than two billion, first line, workers and industry, specific workflows uk.
3. 6 5. We are helping people be more productive collaborate in stay secure our on any device with I ever used to experience as the use every day and its driving usage. We have more than 135 million users of office 3. 6. 5 commercial outlook, mobile is being used on more than 100 million Iowa as an android devices and more than 200000 organizations are using my clothes.
At the hob 15 where we invested to make window stand the most modern secure always up to date operating system when ghost and is now active on nearly 700 million devices and the growth of the enterprise deployments. The CR exceeded our expectations. It was a record you fall 18 now with more than 575 mill.
And revenue growth of 37% in q four the 5th consecutive quarter of revenue acceleration. We saw a record levels of engagement in job postings again this quarter with sessions growth up 41% year. Oh, we are this strong engagements is driven by the quality of the feed video messaging and acceleration of mobile usage with mobile session.
More than 55% year over year. We will continue to invest to make linked in the essential platform to connect the world's professionals and help them achieve more with experience is followed by linked and microsoft graphs that amex 3. 6. 5 gives organization an alternative to monolithic silos suite of business applications with modular modern extensible and.
The turn lock in sites across every thought of the organization from sales to h r it's gaining traction that commercial cloud growth engine with revenue up 61% year over year on investments in power be I power apps in slow, as the new analytics and application platform are gaining significant momentum with eyes weeks and enterprise.
Azure is the only hyperscale cloud that extends to the edge across identity data application platform security in management and our differentiated architectural approach drove an another strong quarter of growth we're investing aggressively to build azure. As the world's computer, we expanded our global data so.
54 regions more than any other cloud provider and with the most comprehensive compliance coverage in the industry. We added nearly 500 new azure capabilities in the last year alone focused on both the existing workloads, the new workloads so desire he and ISD edge, we introduced as your stock and as just we are to first of their high.
You edge solutions that are already seeing strong customer demand. We have democratizing data signs and I would ... contract services as'your m l and data services such as ... cause most DB to health organizations of all sizes can work the data into insights and experiences for, competitive advantage the world's. Leading companies Byron.
And I'm, especially proud that will macho badger and microsoft 3. 6. 5 to accelerate its digital transformation for better saucy and customers in gaming we are pursuing on extensive opportunities from the way games were created in distributed to how their played in viewed so passing $10 billion in revenue. This app for the first dire good investing aggressively in content to come.
Services across every endpoint to expand usage and deepen engagement with game it's the combination of x box live game past subscriptions and mix up or driving record levels of growth and engagement not only are being resting to grow organically, but we are also investing in organically in opportunities that expand our total addressable market and accrue value to our platform.
Estimates take all lived in the united the world's leading professional cloud with the world's leading professional network and prove that we have an integration model that works enabling linked in to accelerate growth, while retaining its member first details with good how we recognize the increasingly wide all roll the developers play in value creation in growth in the era of intelligent.
And edge, depending acquisition will enable us to bring up tools and services to new audiences will enable and good hope to grow and retain its independence and developer. First details in community play five accelerates aversion to build a world class cloud platform for the gaming industry across mobile, pc and comps all and the addition of five new gaming studios, bolsters off first body quantum. Div.
Thought of fast growing gaming services. Microsoft has always been a partner led company and partners increasingly see more opportunity on our platforms in so far and leading companies like sci fi adobe g. As well as fast growing start up like in milby to play and even larger role in our why bridge and growing partner requires system and asset that gives us kale in this new.
In closing, our opportunity has never been Greater. We will continue to innovate in the investor across our solution areas and serving our customers and their unmet and unarticulated needs with this tremendous opportunity comes great responsibility. We relentlessly working to instill trust in technology across everything we do its why we will continue to lead the industry die.
Last advocate for customer privacy, Dr. industry wide cybersecurity initiative and champion ethical. I our investments in business model are fundamentally aligned with our customers. Long term interests and success this opportunity in this fund suitability. Groans us in our mission during power to're person in every organization on the planet to achieve more.
Ah Gross and I am proud of the more than 100000 microsoft employees around the world, while focused on our customer success in this new era now I'll hand over to Amy, who will cover our financial results in detail and share our outlook and other quarter, rejoining new for questions. Thank you, satya, and good afternoon everyone. This quarter revenue was $30.1 billion up, 17% and 15.
The currencies Gross margin dollars increased 19% and 16% in constant currency. Operating income increased 30% and 24% in constant currency. Earnings per share was 113, increasing 7% and 3% to constant currency. As a reminder, for 17 included a $1.8 billion tax benefit related to pre v.
Trouble phone losses in our largest quarter of the year, our sales teams and partners delivered exceptional commercial results, we saw strong performance and most of our g offer geographic regions, against a backdrop of favorable macroeconomic conditions and positive IP spending trends. Customer commitment to our call cut form continues to increase in. FYA.
Closed. A record number of multi million dollar commercial cloud agreements and more than doubled. The number of $10 million plus azure agreements. Are annuity mix increased 3. Year over year 2089%, as a result commercial bookings increased each team. % even with a strong prior year comparable commercial unearned revenue was $29 billion or.
% and 21% in constant currency significantly higher than anticipated due to stronger than expected cloud. Billings our commercial cloud revenue was. $6.9 billion from 53% and 50% in constant currency, with strong performance across the us western Europe and the uk commercial cloud Gross margin percentage increased 6. To 58.
In line with our commitment at the beginning of the year, we improved the Gross margin percentage in each cloud service with azure seeing the most significant improvement. Our company Gross margin was 68% ahead of our expectations and up 1. Year over year from improvement and more complex. Personal computing segment driven by surface FX increased revenue growth by 2.
Lower than anticipated do a stronger us dollars. At the segment level, FX had a positive impact of 3. On productivity and business processes and intelligent cloud and 1. On more personal computing revenue, the f x impact to calm with immaterial. This quarter. Operating expenses grew 9% and 8% in constant currency, above our expectations due to revenue driven expense so.
Sensation, given the strength of the quarter and several sixpence primarily in our sales organization, offset by FX favorability strong revenue growth improved device Gross margin percentage and continue to targeted investment in cloud engineering, cloud sales capacity and the lead in created operating income leverage this quarter. Operating income increased again.
3. Year over year. Now to our segment results revenue from productivity and business processes with $9.7 billion increasing, 13% and 10% in constant currency in, line with our expectations even, with the headwinds from a stronger dollar and a higher than anticipated mix of cloud Billings in our office commercial and dynamics businesses during the quarter.
As a reminder, under ASC 606, the cloud revenue is ratably recognized while annuity on premises revenue, passive component of upfront recognition, higher mix of cloud Billings is reflected more on our revenue and Less in period recognition in the quarter. Office commercial revenue increased 10% and 8% in constant currency. Office three 65 commercial revenue grew smaller and a.
35% in constant currency and office three 65 commercial six grew 29%. We continue to see healthy installed base growth and our p u expansion from customer adoption of premium workloads in a three and he five office consumer revenue increased 8% and 6% in constant currency, driven by recurring subscription revenue.
Subscriber base now a $31.4 million or dynamics business grew 11% and 8% in constant currency with, double digit Billings growth dynamics for 65 or 61% and 56% in constant currency linked. In revenues was 37% and 34% in constant currency with strong execution across all businesses as soft.
Engagement continued to accelerate and we also saw record levels of job postings benefiting from a robust us job market. Segment Gross margin dollars for 13% and 10% in constant currency. Gross margin percentage was relatively unchanged year over year, even as collie mix increased driven by margin expansion and office three 65% and like debt.
Increased 7%, as we continue to investment like gen cloud engineering and commercial sales capacity, operating income increased 20% and 13% in constant currency. Revenue from the intelligent cloud segment was $9.6 billion increasing, 23% and 20% in constant currency with, better than expected results in both our on premises.
Businesses server products to cloud services revenue increased 26% and 24%. The cost of currency, driven by continued strong as you're revenue growth of 89% to 85% in constant currency, as rape or user services have performed ahead of expectations. With our enterprise mobility installed base growing 55% year over year to over.
Million are on premise. The server business grew 8% and 6% in constant currency, with double digit growth in premiums, server products, revenue and healthy renewals, benefiting from a significant value customer see in our hybrid solutions. Enterprise services revenue grew 8% 7% in constant currency, as growth in premier support services and microsoft consulting surfaces was.
By declining custom support agreements for windows server 2003. Segment Gross margin dollars increased 23% and 20% in constant currency Gross margin percentage with relatively unchanged as material improvement and the azure Gross margin percentage was offset the growing mix of azure. I asked and passed revenue operating expenses increased he.
The ongoing investments and cloud engineering and sales capacity to support top line growth. Operating income grew 34% up 30% in constant currency. Finally, more personal computing revenue was $10.8 billion up, 17% and 16% in constant currency with, better than expected results and windows commercial OEM pro and surf.
In the commercial space, we saw an accelerating pace of windows 10 enterprise deployments. This quarter customer demand for modern and secure hardware and stronger than expected pc growth in geographies were pro mixes high contributed to OEM revenue growth, 14% ahead of the overall commercial markets, windows commercial products and cloud services were 2000.
19% in constant currency, driven by double digits Billings growth, as well as a higher mix of in quarter, recognition from multiyear agreements and consumer. Oh, you have non per revenue declined 3% slightly below the consumer piecing market, driven by continued pressure in the entry level price category, even as we continue to take share in the premium category inventory levels were within the normal range.
Revenue x tax three 17% of 16% in constant currency, driven by enhancements to our advertising platform and being volume growth to across both us and international markets service revenue increased 25% to 21% in constant currency, driven by strong performance, but the latest additions in the portfolio against the low prior year, comparable and gaming revenue.
% and 38% in constant currency x box software and services grew 36% and 35% in constant, currency mainly from a third party title ix box live monthly active users increased 8% to $57 million segment Gross margin dollars grew 21% in 18% in constant, currency Gross margin percentage. Increase.
Us additions offset by sales mix to lower margin businesses. Operating expenses grew 9% and 8% in constant currency, driven by seasonality changes in advertising stand versus the prior year and investments and engineering across search and ai. Operating income grew 38% and 32% the constant currency now back to total company results.
Capital expenditures, including financially says were $4.1 billion and increased on sequential basis in line with expectation cash pay for properties plant and equipment was $4 billion reflecting, investments to support growth in our comp business as. Well as. Of R$250 million estate acquisition free cash. Flow was $7.4 billion and. -15% year over year.
Flexing higher capital expenditures in support of our comp business. Cash flow from operations for 4% year over year and included tax payments related to the adoption of a SC 606 and key cj, as well as an earlier start to the hardware inventory built for holiday than in the prior year. Excluding the impact of these items operating cash flow grew approximately 13.
Driven by strong cloud Billings and collections other income and expense was approximately $300 million lower than expected due to f x remeasurement. Our non GAAP effective tax rate was 18% higher than anticipated due to the geographic mix of our revenue. And finally, we return $5.3 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases an, increase of 16 purse.
Our q four share repurchase with $2.1 billion of 31% your year but, down sequentially given, the suspension of share repurchase activity in advance of the announced to get help acquisition now was moved to the outlook.
Terry for both the full year end next quarter does not include any impact from get up which we still expect to clues for the end of accounting year, overall, the key drivers and trends of our business for the next fiscal year, remained largely unchanged from April and assume the consistent macro environment. First on FX, assuming that rates remain stable, we expect no impact to full year revenue.
With any FX benefits in h one offset in h two FX should decrease costs and operating expense growth by 1. Set our commercial business. Given corporate I can't spend optimism an increasing demand for cloud services, our strong competitive product position and consistent sales execution. We expect another year of.
Growth and higher annuity next across commercial business, as customer commitment to our cloud increases, we are seeing a larger and longer term agreements. As a result, we make the increased quarterly volatility in commercial bookings growth and commercial on our revenue productivity, and this is process and should continue to grow double digit driven by office three 65 dynamics truth.
And like den customer demand for our hybrid offering should draw high teams growth in our server products and cloud services KPI and an average specifically, we expect an increasing mix of I asked in past consumption based revenue in window. We expect strong business fundamental in our OEM pro and windows commercial businesses, though the rates of revenue growth.
Year against a strong fy'18 comparable. Third commercial cloud Gross margin percentage, we expect continued improvement in each commercial cloud service as well as in the overall commercial cloud Gross margin percentage, the rate of improvement will moderate relative to fy'18. As revenue mix continues to shift azure. I asked intact assumption based services.
Last year over year improvement in our power user services, we will continue to increase our investments in capex to meet growing demand for our cloud services. Although we do it back to growth rate for the year to moderate. Next operating expenses. Given our strong execution, we will continue to invest in the trends and growing markets. We believe our fundamental to long term shareholder value.
Investment in commercial cloud, like 10, gaming and a I should result in operating expense growth of roughly 7%. Even with these strategic investments, and the continued shift to our cloud businesses. We expect operating margin to be up slightly year over year. Other income expects to be slightly negative in line with prior guidance and with quarterly.
Primarily due to changes in f x, remeasurement interest rates and valuation changes with the adoption of the new accounting rules, financial investments and finally tax rate, we ever find our estimates of the impacts from QCJA the mix of service versus like to the revenue and the geographic mix of revenue, and now expect our fy'19 effective tax rate to be roughly 17% with.
Ability now to the outlook for the first quarter. First, FX, assuming corporates remains stable, we expect x. Two increased revenue growth for the fox mutely 1. And decrease costs operating expenses by 1. Second, our commercial business, we expect another healthy quarter with commercial on our revenue down approximately 10% sequentially in la.
Seasonality commercial cloud Gross margin percentage will improve slightly on a sequential basis serve. We expect another quarter of sequential growth in capital expenditures, as we continue to support growing global customer demand. Now the segment guidance in productivity and business processes, we expect revenue to €9.2 billion 9.4. Or five billion and driven by.
Growth and office commercial and dynamics linked in revenue growth should remain high on a stronger prior year comparable. In intelligent cloud, we expect revenue $28.1. 708.3005 billion as a revenue growth to reflect a balance of continued strength in our I often path consumption based services and a moderating growth rate of growth in our per use.
In more personal computing, we expect revenue between $9.950 10.2 billion. E m. Pro. We expect revenue growth in line with the commercial p c market and OEM non pro we expect similar dynamic 16 in q. Four in surface we continue. To expect strong performance from related additions including the, new surface CO.
Grow similar to q one of the prior year, search x tax just see another quarter of mid. Teens growth with consistent execution, it gets rate and volume growth opportunities. In gaming, we expect mid. Teens revenue growth with continued strong user engagement on our platform. His offering services growth rate with moderate, due to strong third party titles launched a year ago.
We expect cost 9.5 billion to $9.7 billion. And operating, expenses of 9.2% to $9.3 billion other income. And expense. Is expected to be approximately -$100 million and finally we expect our. Q one, effective tax rate to be slightly lower than our full year rate due to volumes equity vest to take place during our first quarter mike let's go duke.
Thanks to me will number of the q a operator can you please repeat your instructions corp. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, at this time will be conducting the question and answer session to ask a question please press star one on your telephone key pad, the confirmation tone will indicate that your line is in the question q you may press star to if we'd like to remove your question from the queue for participants using speaker equipment and may be necessary to pick up your handset? Is there more pressing the star?
Our first question is coming from a line of Keith weiss with Morgan Stanley, please proceed with your questions. I cannot thank you guys for taking the question and congratulations on a really nice quarter. I wanted to dig into azure a little bit. I think growth overall on average this quarter is probably head of most people's expectations, and it sounds like the the type of business is being done on azure is becoming more strategic and changing a.
Satya, I was hoping you know talked with a little bit about the types of workloads, the type of sort of services that are being used on azure had that evolved over the past year, and Amy, for maybe a new safety. I believe you gave us sort of the growth in the enterprise mobility of 55%. Was that in line with your expectations, because I know you're sort of temper ring our expectations on growth net part of the business is that growing in line with.
You were expecting or does that are than you had imagined? Yes, so what plausible thanks piece of the question insolvency stock overall in terms with the well colored mix.
Being fairly stable, which is our hybrid value proposition really has continued to resonate. So that means there is a bunch of well clothes that are migrating to the cloud people use both as your stock plus azure. So that continues to drive a lot of last growth for us as people sort of looking basically to lift in shift a lot.
Data center workloads, then on top of it, we even have more than as a nation of apps, that is accelerating and that drives a lot of the higher level services, in particular our data services as well as our prices, but when I sat with because their attention to compute, but what happens is all this computer then requires storage and data, and thats an another place where we see.
Acceleration. The one thing that I would say that I am increasingly CSGA1 will close in some sense, when you think about some of the commitments be made buckle on the biggest brands in the world in terms of what they're doing one its very core do that operation and to their running even the clock, and so that's? One thing that definitely the market difference for us.
Now on the per user services, specifically enterprise mobility keep it was a bit better than I had anticipated in q four and related driver of these per user services, such as e. M. Ask actually is the value proposition? That top tier refers to we refer to as microsoft three 65, and we saw strength broadly and if you think about.
Windows commercial his office three 65 commercial and EMS and really that I think what we heard a lot was value of security and management continue to add more supported endpoints also really tremendous value to customers. And we did see a bit more strength that I was anticipating in q four. Thanks. Thanks to all. Thank you.
Enough? Thank you. The next question is coming from the line of colonel care said with deutsche bank please proceed. Thank you. Congrats on a good quarter. Amy, the commercial unearned revenue and bookings were again, super strong and evidently microsoft is benefiting from fairly strong he a renewal activity. So when you look out into fiscal 2009, 19, how would you compare the deer.
Activity versus fiscal'2018 and fiscal'17? It sounds like you are still constructive, but I'd love to hear some color whether it feels as good as the fiscal year. You just ended. Thank you thank car. Let me break up that question a little bit, because you actually as a couple of things that are important number one the on our in straw.
All at the end of q four you are right was very good execution on renewals. I reasonably large renewal base, but there was also a very good execution of adding new workload, adding new opportunity in q four things such as as or as an example, or dynamics three. 65000.
So really q four wasn't Joss renewal activity? It was also new workflows in new value. So when you look into 19, I am optimistic on both of those France, good execution, continuing our our new tools, as well as adding new value and new opportunity and the third.
The question was really how do they renewal base? Correlates fy'18 answer? If it's a little bigger, but it actually has the same amount of volatility quarter to quarter. So q 1s renewal bases actually almost equivalent to last year cut. Okay. Great helpful color I mean thank you, thanks for all operating will take the next.
Thank you. The next question is coming from the line of Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed with your question great. Thank you. I was wandering off your sought get it. If you can help us think about how azure hybrid benefit has changed that type of the net expansion rate you're experiencing on your e. L? That come up for renewal? And I know you were kind of a little bit touching on that with car.
Help think about how that, in particular might be helping the expansion rate to those accounts, and can you help us think about how this might be how that might be helping drive growth in your existing contracts? And then the other question would be you mentioned debt you're moving from per user consumption that you are going to see more growth in consumption based services versus per.
Azure workload growth, and IM just kind of wondering if you could share with this. Is there any Gross margin impact their does one have higher Gross margins than the others there anything that we should be taking from how your parsing those comments about how we think of azure Gross margin progression going forward, thanks whether so on the first one, I actually think that these hybrid huge benefits and been sort of the best kept secret.
Hoping that going into this next fiscal year, we do a much better job and customers do a much better job for their own benefit, because the the advantage as you have because of the hybrid use benefits across the under workloads, operating phenomenon when we had a good set of sessions that partner meeting this week just really making sure everybody.
Benefit. So I dont think that that is really played a few six am using all the growth we are seeing, in spite of that not being broadly really driving growth. But to your second question, I will even say the falling which is that I think there is clearly a different in GM between the poor user and consumption, but the key is even the consumption services calm and if.
Is the iss there is the data services and some of the higher level services some of these Iowa to services now even have Saas components to it. So, therefore, I think that mix will be different by quarter by quarter, but increasingly all strategy is in many times to get customers to get going with what is core storage our core compute.
Am into these higher level services, and I would say have on those two components just to add the over hybrid benefits. I think we're starting us off to say we started to impact from that, in my opinion in q four in the on prem Katy, I, but it really was more in windows.
You, as we continue to see in sequel next year, I do think there is some opportunity for customers to realize real value from these hybrid benefits. And so as to add confident to my high teens. KPI growth for the year. Is that this is a very customer value. Oriented offer to your question on GM talk is ah.
Correct on that one and I would say the way we think about it is actually more worth of azure per user, if it really does move more with him three 65 per user, its almost prior to put that, in your mind is behaving more and having margin structure is more like office, three 65 and behave quite similar way.
Have good quarters when we do good execution, an office three 65, and so my comments were more and continue to be around having people understand that sales motion and it tends to news in that direction. Thank you, thanks better. We are moving the next question please. Thank you. The next question is coming from a line of march for dollar with. Bernstein research. Please proceed with your question that congratulations.
Thanks for taking my questions. So I have to related questions. The first is if you look at this quarter, intelligent cloud revenue grew 23% and the Gross margin dollars good with the same 23%, given the fast growing lower margin, azure business we're not seeing any longer negative margin impact. Have you reached the point where the incremental dollars? Azure revenue is close to the oh.
In cloud Gross margins, and then a second apologize quite long question capex spending in the quarter in the full year we're both strong we could argue two possibilities here is driven by all the capacity by the demand or you're having to spend a lot of it on replacing equipment as their aging out. How should we think about the mix in capex between building man and replacing 1? Second, thanks.
Let me take both is on the first one in terms of the GM this quarter to rights the improvements particularly or in the I asked of tasks Gross margin of azure did offset the cloud mix to azure within the segment going forward continuing to see that I think we'll see.
On Gross margin, just because the amount of azure in the mix after rate, it's, growing we're still not at that point where a dollar of Gross margin in the cloud is equivalent to a dollar on of on prem. That being said, we have a lot. So as you saw this quarter, we're doing to grow Gross margin dollars in that even within the.
Into fy'19. Your second question in terms of capital spent if you think about it at at a high level, our capital expenditures are growing at a lower rates in our overall cloud revenue was growing. And thats why you're starting to see leverage right flow through the p and l and think that the rate of capex growth, as I said in fy'19 will.
That happens, because, of course we're doing some were placement, but we're also adding regions and seeing a lot of global demand and so we're actually and improving margin. So I think that's put a very high level at the as you asked a question I tend to think revenues growing faster than than my capital youre seeing leverage through the p and l and we'll see a moderating rate in fy'19.
One is a big quarter it just it's just going to be volatile. As capex tends to be quarter to quarter based on both supply chain and demand that really bricks. Thank you. Greg, the thanks, Mark. Operator will take the next question. Please. Thank you. The next question is coming from the line of Walter pritchard with sitting, please proceed hi. Amy wondering on on the office.
Products and services on the commercial side, you had I think 8% growth below as you've seen. I know six and six drive some volatility in that, in that business. Can you help us understand what drove out in the quarter and I know you're making some changes like the support and so forth is getting into the out years there any impact that you expect to see the growth rate net business, as we look forward from from those changes? Thanks wells from the entire impacts in.
I actually feel very good about that number because if you think about billion plus dollar fee, we had to the unearned it was partially due to the fact that we have very good mix shift to office three 65% in terms of Billings in the quarter, almost very little of that gets recognized in the quarter, almost all those to the balance sheet.
So my confidence for f $0 and continue in that number being the double digits. We talked about in the full year guide only gets raised by seeing that execution. So it is really 606 related is the way to think about it plus a mix with Billings and billing strengths. So I don't really do about that as big and negative and you saw the exact same behavior in. Diane.
So it's a pretty similar in period in quarter impacts great thanks. Walter. Will take the next question please. Our next question is coming from the line of Phil. When flow with wells Fargo please proceed with your question, hey, yeah, thanks for taking my grand question and congrats on a great quarter integrate fiscal year. Amy question for you you commented on on the positive spread that you're seeing and the window?
OEM business, but overall, but particularly on on mic on the commercial side, would you start to think forward on the actually call a couple of quarters? You're obviously told us what the positive drivers were, but how do you see those were playing out in can we maintain that positive spread and and its a wide and if it does maybe narrow? How do you think about the narrow the shore let me frame the first as the things that.
We are seeing really customer driven which is if you start with windows 10 and the value the customer stay and what we are seen is accelerating enterprise deployments windows 10. When that happens, it does create demand for new devices and modern devices that improved security.
So that then in turn results in a better and stronger overall OEMPC commercial market, in addition, because of the macroeconomic conditions are actually quite good on this front, and with some business optimism at creating some winded our back. I also think people looking say its security and value are important. This is a great time to.
Modern Pcs and particularly in markets were pro mix has been strong. I continue to expect to see all of those things capex through the course of next year. Now what you will see, however, it all those things even do remain true, which I expect them to if the economic environment stays the same day.
Where we'VE had really strong revenue growth and a really strong market. Will I think moderate growth wives, just because the base it was coming off of and 17 was just a lot slower. So even if I see all the good things in good trends happening that I feel I'll really create a great opportunity for us to selling microsoft three 65.
Growth rates, moderate make sure that that's very helpful. Thanks, thanks. Operator will take our next question. Please. Thank you. The next question is coming from the line of ramo luncheon with Barclays. Please proceed with your question. He thanks for taking my question. Amy, chemical back to the survey product that you partly and such it with the when ever ask and I.
Hybrid club will be a factor here, but the grow for us the best we've seen for a long time. Can you just talk about the drivers that kind of where I have play here? Thank you. Thank you for your right. The first one was the benefits that we saw hybrid in particular with an outsize impact on windows server. The second has been a trend. We also have talked about a little bit.
We saw strong double digit growth in the radio. So we'll go the mix shift as well, as I think strength in the hyper benefits as a value prop to customers. Those two are there are the 1s I would actually call out his driver's for the quarter. I mean you should be relatively sustainable. If I listen to them to you, I believe in the one.
Think really important thing for us is continuing to focus on creating customer value, the concept of adding a lot of value for having and giving comfort to a customer that, as they make a commitment to the microsoft platform that they can move between a commitment to on prem to the cloud and over high value way. I do believe is.
Unique things that we offer at this time for commercialization we will take next question please. Thank you. The next question is coming from the line of Gregg moskowitz with cowen and company, please proceed with your question. Okay. Thank you very much such a this is more of a big picture question but over a longer term period. IM curious how large you think edge computing will become relative peace.
Getting thanks. Yeah. I mean I think vision that we have always had is that distributed computing. In some sense, it will remain distributed. So we don't flick this in do there's an edge computing that the cloud computing. The need for computing is on a secular basis going to increase and as you need to reason over large amounts of data.
Not only storage and compute to be CO located on noble as the gold and get them vetted with the computing. Thats what we are building. So if you think about our real competitive advantage in to fancy issue is we are one programming model, one identity model security management, so that more than developers, as well as he can use the computer way lable from agis feel.
And the reality is these modern workloads, in fact lose it all so it's, not like I just build an azure sphere application. I build an application that's fundamentally distributed, but also happens to run some computer on azure of sphere that I think the future which is distributed computing going back to what needs to be truly distributed, even driven sober Less even worse this thing.
How one time migration to something new expense? Thank you very much. Thanks. Greg. Operator will take the next question please. Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of Keith. Often with banks Montreal, please proceed with your question hi. Thanks very much saute. I wanted to direct this to you if I could I'd like to understand how you view dynamics current positioning.
Compared to the market opportunities in the context of the question is dynamics remains a fairly small part of microsoft revenues as well. If you look at the market share ware, dynamic serve it's a fairly small part of the market served. So what do you think microsoft needs to do to have a larger impact against the market opportunities for overall, we are.
Very committed in very bullish about the opportunity in dynamics we've done an XGE65, for example, what are your even to seeing in the last fiscal year?
The first the first full fiscally where we have does more than montjeu the approach to business applications. I think its very disruptive in the marketplace because it brings a very different value proposition. It has a price advantage in the value advantage full cost of most and any what is fundamentally a fragmented. Mark. This is not business applications. And that will.
Will be a winner take all I know folks think about the state but its not be so about one small category in one segment call enterprise there is to share high sheriff considered 2035 or what have you so? In some sense, this one is always being about being able to serve customers, especially in an increasing digitisation will crack, which is the knee.
Processed automation is increasing I've taken. I would keep project translates into up preventive maintenance in azure, and then ends up as few service in dynamic. Thats been one. Captain we have seen autumn attraction with so to me ah that's going in fact to these new secular growth opportunities while being disruptive to the status quo of anyone who has.
Margin and very high priced monolithic products today is basically our strategy going forward. Okay. Thanks set you, thanks, Keith, and operator this will be our last question. Thank you. Our final question is coming from the line of our feet with j p. Morgan please proceed with your question.
Will add my congrats. So, Amy, we keep expecting the office three 65 commercial see growth to decelerate materially. At some point bid upon the penetration level, but this quarter that see growth actually accelerated about a . 22 1009%. And when we look back on it the trajectory really isn't too different than where it was even a year ago. So IM just curious is there.
Lying driver there that would keep that deceleration relatively manageable going forward, or would you continue to see that flowing in a way that that over time would exert a little drag on azure through this per user as your services? This is one where over time there certainly is going to be a.
This raises a per user business him for 65 pages that characteristic an office has AEMS has that and so this quarter actually what we saw was actually from strength in education, which added a good amount of seats this quarter, as well as good execution across our other segments, so we'd.
Growth that we were excited to see frankly and a segment. What we've been working hard to make additional progress. It adds value of the team is actually 90 job in that segment of credits from really modern offers to get them into the hands of that market as well but over the long term and as we continue to move aggressively we will continue to seek grow.
Dissipates, but I would also say this is going to take longer than I think maybe people would have five there were lots of users as we continue to redefine what offices that you add to the base whether thats first lines workers with it as an increasing number of small businesses who finally have access and value that we are creating for the.
Things with ease from scheduling all the way to being able to work through minor business profits adjustments softening has talked about. So really as we continue to redefine what office means from something that people will always associated to word at solid powerpoint two things that mean mobile or video with stream or collaboration with the teams. I think we have opportunity to can to.
Those new users new expected users that we have an access before a new capabilities even to users. We have thank you great. Thanks, Mark. Better accept the q a portion of states earnings call. Thank you for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with obvious soon you can find additional details the microsoft investor relations website. Thanks. Thank you. Everyone. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude todays said.
Again, we thank you for your participation, and you may disconnect your lines at this time.
