Greetings and welcome to the first quarter fiscal year 2018, microsoft corp earnings conference call at this time, all participants on a listen only mode. A brief question and answer session will follow the formal presentation. If you would like to ask a question please press star one on the confirmation tone will indicate that your line is in the question q you may press star to if you'd like to remove your question from the queue for.
Speaker equipment and may be necessary to pick up your handset before pressing the star keys. If anyone should require operator assistance. During the conference, please press star zero on your telephone keypad. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would like to turn the call over to Chris a general manager of investor relations. Chris. Please proceed. Thanks just as good afternoon. And thank you for joining us today on the call with me or.
Chief executive officer. Amy hood, chief financial officer, frank road, chief accounting officer, and John c tough, deputy general counsel in corporate secretary, on the microsoft investor relations website, you can find our earnings press release and financial summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks during todays call. As a reminder, this is the first quarter were reporting our results under the new revenue standard. ASC 606.
During a conference call we hosted on august 3rd the adoption of the standard had several impacts, but most materially revenue recognition of windows 10 OEM licenses and the license component of on premises annuity contracts, as we discuss our q one results in share our outlook on the call please keep in mind following first, the new standard allows us to simplify the communication of our results by eliminating the non GAAP revenue reporting.
There is no change in customer Billings. Cash flows are revenue recognition for our cloud services hardware enterprise services and advertising businesses and lastly, the quarterly seasonality of our revenue within a given year does change and we may experience higher quarterly volatility as well. The prior periods, we will reference on this call and in the earnings materials on our I r website have been restated reflect adoption of this new standard.
During our august 3rd call, we also translated our outlook for q one into the new standard and all references to expectations on this call refer to that translated guidance. You can find additional information on this accounting changes located on the I r website.
All growth compared, since we make on the call today will relate to the corresponding period last year unless otherwise noted will also provide growth rates in constant currency. One available as a framework for assessing how our underlying business is performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. We will post our prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available. Todays call is being webcast live in recorded. If you ask a question that.
In our lives transmission, in the transcript, in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call in view the transcript on the microsoft investor relations website until October 2006. 2018. During this call we will be making forward looking statements which our predictions, projections, are other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties as.
Materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call and in the risk factors section of our form 10 k form 10 q and other reports and filings with the securities and exchange commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward looking statements and with that I'll turn the call over to the ideal. Thank you Chris, and thanks to everyone on the phone for joining we're off to have.
Aunt in fy'18, delivering double digit top and bottom line growth and exceeding $20 billion in commercial cloud ARR, outpacing the goal. We set just over 2 years ago. I am proud of our teams work behind these results that spend all of our segments. We now have 120 million monthly active users of office 3. 6. 5 commercial.
More than 530 million linked in members dynamics, 3. 6. 5 customers grew 40% year over year. As a compute usage more than doubled this quarter and revenue grew 90% and windows 10 commercial monthly active devices grew 90% year. Over yields these results reflect our accelerating innovation.
Increased usage. An engagement across all businesses as customers continue to choose microsoft to help them transform. Amy will cost of financial results in more detail, but today I wanted to talk about the key areas of innovation and opportunity for growth in 2018 and beyond our focus is on bringing our technology and products together into experiences.
That deliver new value for customers by galvanizing around five key solution areas first top of mind, for every ceo is empowering their own employees for the modern workplace. Microsoft three 65 is our core offering to address this 500 billion plus market. We are bringing together office three 65 windows 10.
Price mobility and security as a complete integrated solution for organizations of all sizes. Id rep represents a profound shift. In the way we design build and deliver our productivity solutions moving to a people centered approach spanning all their devices to unlock creativity and inspire team work while simpler.
Security and management. This part quarter we launched to wave of innovation across microsoft 3. 6. 5. The window stand fall creators update empowers people with new ai first interfaces, ranging from voice activated commands through court on a in king in most of the three'd content storytelling and mixed reality experiences.
Cloud sharing and CO. Authoring experiences are now natively enabled with one Dr. files on demand. We are making windows tend more accessible to everyone with new features like the I control, which gives people the ability to operate a pc using just their eyes. You will see a great lineup of new windows 10 devices this holiday from the noose office. Bu.
To a wider range of devices from our OEM partners this month, we also introduced windows mixed reality broadly mixed reality, which is a voice gaze in gesture interface will fundamentally change the way people and teams collaborate. I will work with the ford is a great example of this promise for the designers a you.
Polity to blend three'd holograms digital he with models and physical production vehicles, allowing them to experiment and integrate on designed much more quickly holloman windows vr, headsets and microsoft three 65 enable any customer to blend physical and digital world across devices, empowering people to collaborate in the same shared experience. Fra.
In the world ai is infused across microsoft three 65 in a myriad of helpful ways, making it easier for people to create high impact presentations and documents, auto made routine tasks and search and discover up people and content in highly personalized and relevant waits beyond new ai capabilities. In powerpoint word. One note she.
We are enabling I first workloads like being and court on a using the microsoft graph soon you will be able to search not only the public Internet but also corporate Internet sites line of business applications and people with being for business. Now in private preview with court honor, you will be able to read or your calendar and automate tasks like schedule.
Or replying to any male using just your voice? Microsoft teams is core to our vision for the modern workplace. As a digital hob 14 work, bringing together conversations meetings in content into a single canvas. We are integrating our on cognitive services to make meetings more productive for users to day and longer term last. Lee.
3. 6. 5 connects users devices in Saas applications into a single control plain to simplify our I't management while providing comprehensive security across the entire digital estate. Today's stuff estimated threads require. I based security approaches using the microsoft intelligent security graph reprocess billions a signal.
Our immediate threats. New conditional access capabilities evaluate risk in real time based on the users account device and application in physical location are leading edge, security and management capabilities are just one reason customers trust microsoft 3. 6. 5 for their modern workplace needs now I'll turn to linked in and our business applications.
Set the priority one was to ensure that linked in on its own accelerate it's mission and growth while retaining its culture as part of microsoft nearly 1 year in we had ahead of plan with linked in contributing positively to EPS ex purchase accounting in fiscal 18. Second, we are seeing record levels of engagement.
In his on target to sell past 21 billion sessions this Columbia and has been our seen its 4th consecutive quarter of 20% plus sessions growth. Engagement across the platform is strong with 65% year over year growth in job visitors across mobile and desktop 60% growth in feed update views and nearly 40% growth.
Just sent driven by more ubiquitous messaging. Third, innovation and execution our accelerating in both the business and in the product integrations across microsoft with the positive reception to made a video carrier advised marketplace and this week's launch of smart reply messaging linked in profile integration in office 3. 6. 5 delivers.
Insights from both the linked in graphs and the microsoft graph, but the micro sobs relationship sales solution brings together linked and sales navigate the and microsoft dynamics to transform business to business sales through social selling dynamics 3. 6. 5 for talent with linked and recruit a and learning gives a chop professionals are complete solution to compete in the talent market.
You will see more product integration and fiscal 18 as we continue to accelerate our innovation to connect the world's leading professional cloud with the world's leading professional network now I'll turn to areas of our hybrid cloud value proposition applications in infrastructure and day to day. I we've been focused on addressing the real world needs of customers with our differentiated a pro.
Architect ing for hybrid consistency develop a product to VT ai capabilities and trust and security in compliance. Moreover, customers are choosing the microsoft cloud for its operational consistency, productivity and security that spans the entire digital estate includes we were window stand security and management dynamics, 3. 6. 5, enterprise mobility and sigh.
And azure let's double click on hybrid to support the emerging intelligent cloud intelligent edge. Application pattern you need a consistent stock across the public cloud and the edge. Merrily providing qualification services are conductivity between on premise data centers in the public cloud is not sufficient to meet customer needs. You need consistent.
The development environment, operating models and technology stocks ... provides this consistency across the entire stack inclusive of identity data app, platform security and, management all abdi, edge and in the, cloud our hybrid cloud is one of the reasons nearly every fortune 500 company has chosen to partner with microsoft. Costs.
He chose azure as its hybrid cloud platform, and we are excited to partner with them on the digital transformation core currency of any business going forward will be the ability to convert the data into a I that drives competitive advantage. As you are sequel DB makes it possible for customers to take sequels over from there on premise data center to a fully managed instance in the cloud with no code changes.
17 is now broadly available on windows Linux Dhaka contain as with everything building, including the ability to run a I compute close to the data with by the on our our ...
DB is the first globally distributed multimodal database that enables developers dry taps variety and other even based over Less applications. We we are accelerating our innovation to help every developer b. I develop a with approachable new tools from ... machine learning studio for creating simple Emma models to Paul full .... Machine learn.
For the most advanced ai modeling in data science, we continue to enhance our cognitive services to give every enterprise powerful building blocks to create their own ai applications. Finally, we continue to invest in making azure the most trusted cloud with a I based security built in as you a confidential computing enables. Inscription.
Use data doing shorted inflammation is always under customer control. Our first for any public cloud. Our ongoing datacenter expansion brings azure at two 42 regions globally more than any other cloud provider and 69 comp lines offerings and the most comprehensive compliance coverage in the industry and new as a availability.
New levels of resiliency for high availability apps within the region and across regions. Now, let me have done to our loss solution area. Gaming. We are mobilizing to pursue are expensive opportunity in the $100 billion plus gaming industry, broadening our approach to how we think about gaming end to end from the way.
Aided in distributed to how they have played and viewed. We will continue to connect our gaming assets across p c console and mobile and work to grow and engage the more than 53 million x box lived member network more deeply infrequently with new services like game past and mix. So and we are a few days away from launching the x box one x the most out.
Danced and powerful console ever built model. Will we have high expectations for our gaming business to bring more people to more microsoft experiences and broaden our engagement and usage scenarios? This means fundamentally rethinking how we measure progress in gaming, while we continue to innovate across the console pc next box.
We see substantial additional opportunities across his sports and streaming at 20%. This quarter, our software and services revenue growth reflects the early stage potential of this larger opportunity. We also see the opportunity to empower developers who work on console, pc and mobile games to use.
The structure and services to enhance the gameplay and community gaming pushes the boundaries of hardware and software innovation with some of the most CPUNGPU intensive applications and content. Giving us a huge opportunity in the cloud, as one example, pub g. Corp with the hit game player on known battlegrounds is not only partnering to make x box the exclusive.
Launch, but is also running on azure. In closing across the company, we are mobilizing to pursue five core customer solution areas. We are partnering deeply with our customers so that our new technologies and innovations can help them digitally transform grow and thrive knol handed over to a me to walk through this quarter's results.
In share our outlook and I look forward to rejoining you for the questions. Thank you, satya, and good afternoon everyone. This quarter revenue was $24.5 billion up, 12% and 11% in constant currency with, better than expected performance across all segments Gross. Margin increased 15% operating. Income increased 15% and earnings per share was 84 cents.
17%. Our strong start the fiscal year with double digit top and bottom line growth is a result of our consistent execution and ongoing investment in product, innovation and sales capacity. At a company level, linked and contributed approximately 5. Of revenue and Gross margin growth and had a 4. Drag on operating income excluding the cost of amortization of acquired enhance job.
Den contributed $78 million to operating income. We are confidently ahead of our original financial commitment for like 10. We now expect linked in x purchase accounting to be accretive to EPS this fiscal year. Our results were in line with macroeconomic trends with better than expected performance from large markets, like France, Japan and the uk and stabilization markets like Brazil. An.
Our sales team and partners delivered strong commercial results this quarter multiyear commitments from customers contributed to an 89%. Annuity mix on a roughly flat dollar volume of EA exploration. We grew commercial bookings 14% and 9% in constant currency. Commercial on our revenue came in higher than we expected at $21.5 billion.
Early from higher software assurance Billings and FX benefit. Our commercial cloud business had another quarter of robust revenue growth and material Gross margin improvement. Revenue exceeded. $5 billion in this quarter, frying 56% year over year, and Gross margin increased 8. To 57% with improvement in each cloud service, most notably.
Our company Gross margin was 66% up 2. From prior year, as sales mix of higher margin products and services along with improving cloud margins more than offset the impact of the growing cloud mix of revenue and blinked and amortization cost. The f x impact of a weaker than expected us dollar increased total company revenue growth by 1.
Level, FX had minimal impact on productivity and business processes and increase revenue growth in both intelligent cloud and more personal computing by 1. F x added 1. Of growth operating expenses this quarter, which grew 16% and 15% in constant currency link 10 contributed 14. Of growth, including $154 million of amortization of acquired in. Tan.
Now to our segment results revenue from productivity and business processes segment grew 28%. Also 28% in constant currency to $8.2 billion was better than expected results due to f x as, well as office commercial consumer and link den linked 10 contributed 18. Of growth office commercial revenue.
Sense, as revenue mix continued to shift office three 65 commercial offer three 65 commercial revenue grew 42% from strong installed base growth and arpu expansion. Companies. Like lows in Devon energy, chose office three 65 to conduct our employees and empower them in the modern workplace and with our channel partners, we added on average more than 50000.
Med medium business customers. Each month a trend we have sustained for more than 3 years officers. 55 commercial see growth was up 1. Sequentially. Three 32% and declined 8. Year over year. We do expect that year over year trend to continue given the increasing size of the base office consumer revenue increased 12% or 10.
N c driven by recurring subscription revenue and growth in our subscriber base now at $2008 million, our dynamics business grew 13% and 12% in constant currency, driven by the revenue mix shift to dynamics. Three 65 customers like the us department of veterans affairs and the Seattle Seahawks have adopted dynamics three 65 to modernize our business cross.
Dynamics, three 65 grew 69% same constant currency, with continued installed base and arpu growth. Linked in revenue for the quarter was approximately $1.1 billion a, bit better than we expected post acquisition sales. Execution has been strong with record levels of user engagement this. Quarter linked in sessions again grew more than 20.
Set segment Gross margin dollars grew 25% in 2004% in constant currency was 15. Of contribution from link 10, including $218 million of amortization. Gross margin percentage declined due to the impact of linked in related amortization. Operating expenses grew 54% to 53% in constant currency, with 49. From link den including.
$4 million and amortization expense. Operating income increased 3% and 4% in constant currency, with 10. Of negative impact from den the intelligent cloud segment delivered $6.9 billion in revenue growing, 14% and 13% in constant currency was better than expected performance driven by highbury cloud results as, well as FX.
Server products and cloud services revenue grew 17% also 17% in constant currency with another quarter of double digit annuity revenue growth. As a revenue grew 90% and 89% in constant currency, and as you're premium revenue grew triple digits for the 13th consecutive quarter. Our unique ability to provide a distributed hybrid model for.
Loud and intelligent edge continues to attract customers to microsoft symantec. The industry's largest security vendor has adopted a company wide hyper strategy with azure, including delivery of its Norton consumer products to a global community of more than 50 million people and financial services firms like bank of America, TV bank and sumitomo mitsui banking, corporation, or or.
And the status services to improve customer experiences. Enterprise services revenue grew 1% and was flat and constant currency, as premium support services growth, offset declines in customs support agreements for windows server 2003. Segment Gross margin dollars grew 10%, the same and cost a currency and segment Gross margin percentage declined due to the increasing cloud revenue mix and lower energy.
Surgeons partially offset by material improvement and aggreko Gross margins. This quarter. Operating expenses grew 3% or 2% in constant currency from ongoing investments in sales capacity and engineering. Operating income increased 20% the same in constant currency. Now to more personal computing. Revenue from this segment was $9.4 billion with.
As well as each core business contributing to the segments better than expected results. Excluding phone revenue grew 3% the same in constant currency, both the commercial and the consumer pc markets were better than we expected contributing to OEM revenue growth to 4%. OEM pro revenue grew 7%. Ahead of the commercial p c market from a higher mix of premium skew.
From timing of license purchases, we continue to see windows 10 deployment cycles, Dr. commercial customer hardware demand.
Per revenue was -1% in line with the consumer p c market and reflecting healthier conditions in key markets like Brazil and Russia. Inventory levels were in the normal range for a pre holiday quarter. Windows commercial products and services grew 7% and 6% in constant currency, mainly driven by seat growth. We continue to see enterprise customer momentum with coca cola company her majesty revenue.
And Rogers communications choosing windows 10 for its intelligent security features and advanced management capabilities. Patent licensing declined this quarter, primarily due to one time impact of IP deals side. In the prior year, search revenue x tack grew 15% the same in constant currency from higher revenue per search and stronger than expected performance from volume.
Businesses show healthy improvement in revenue growth and profitability as we realized the benefits of scale. Our surface business grew 12% and 11% in constant currency, driven by sales at the new surface laptop in both the commercial and consumer segments. We continue to see solid execution through the product life cycle transition between pro for in our new devices gay.
1% and was flat and constant currency, as x box software and services growth offset declines in hardware. Software and services revenue grew 21% or 20% in constant currency, driven by continued growth in monetization are engaged user base grew 13% to $53 million monthly active users across x box, one windows 10 and mobile platforms a des.
New services like game past and mixer, which create more opportunity for engagement and monetization showed encouraging early results. Segment Gross margin dollars increased 10% Gross margin percentage increase primarily due to sales mix shift to higher margin products and services. Operating expenses declined 1% or 2% in constant currency from lower windows and gaming.
And our last full quarter of significant benefit from phone. Saving operating income grew 26% the same and constant currency. Now back to our overall company results. This quarter. We invested approximately $2.7 billion in capital expenditures including, finance leases down, sequentially and lower than originally plan mainly due to quarter to quarter volatility cash played for appropriate equip me.
$2.1 billion our, significant capital investment continues to use a store customer demand and usage signal and the teams remained focused on Gross margin improvement as a deploy service services globally to meet that demand signal free. Cash flow grew 10% from operating cash flow growth of 8% as. A reminder in, the prior year we, had $1.3 billion. And.
Equivalent positions that reverse the following quarter, excluding this amount, free cash flow increased 27% from higher customer collections following strong Billings growth and working capital improvements in the hardware business, primarily driven by our exit from the phone business. Other income and expense was $276 million a little more than planned, as we continued to see opportunities and the equity market to realize game throughout the quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 18% 1. Lower than we expected primarily due to geographic mix of revenue. This quarter, we returned $4.8 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase ers now. Lets turn to the q two outlook first. On FX a. Sermon current rates remain stable we, expect FX to increase revenue growth by 1. Costs.
Point and opex growth by 2. Our commercial business should remain healthy with solid renewal execution and increasing customer demand for our hybrid cloud services and new cloud solutions like microsoft three 65. Turning to commercial bookings, as you know, the underlying dollar volume of EA explorations impacts commercial bookings growth for the full year total egg.
Up slightly but to to exploration dollars volume will be down roughly 20% impacting our two q two commercial bookings growth. We expect commercial on our revenue to be down approximately 7% sequentially, reflecting normal seasonality. We remain committed to material improvement and in our commercial cloud. Gross margin percentage margin performance is variable quarter to quarter, driven by rev.
Seasonality, as well as to tire make of infrastructure spend, we expect continued year over year margin improvement and sequential trends consistent with prior years. Next to capex, we will increase our capital investment to meet growing demand and capacity needs. And on the cruel dollar basis. We expect a sequential dollar increase next quarter and productivity and business processes. We expect. Rei.
0.7. $9 billion office three 65 commercial growth will continue to outpace the transactional decline respect to more moderate rate of growth in our office consumer business given. The prior year comparable in dynamics we, expect continued double digit revenue growth driven by the shift dynamics three, 65 and we expect approximately $1.2 billion. Of lead.
Reflecting continued strong sales execution by the team. Intelligent cloud, we expect revenue between 7.3. $5 billion with another quarter of double digit revenue growth across server products and cloud services as. A reminder starting, in q two of last year the. Launch of windows server 2016 drove strong on premise premises report performance resulting.
Constant currency growth for server products, this comparable will impact the segment year over year growth rate respect enterprise services revenue growth to be similar to last quarter, driven by premier support services offsetting declines in customs support agreements. In more personal computing. We expect revenue between 77 to $12.1 billion first. On windows OEM rei.
Attract roughly in line with the overall p c market. Specifically OEM pro revenue growth should be more line to commercial p. C market. Normalizing for a couple of points of growth from a timing of licensing purchasing in the first quarter. Next devices and surface, we expect revenue to be up slightly from q one, as we continue to transition to the new service pro ramp surface laptop and launch the surface.
Also in November of last year, we closed the sale of our future phone business. So this will be the final quarter of revenue comparability impacted by the phone. We expected, we expect double digit revenue growth in search x tech, reflecting continued strong performance in both rate and volume. These. Finally gaming, we expect revenue growth from the launch of the x box one console.
Healthy growth of software and services revenue in q two, the higher mix of gaming hardware revenue will significantly impact both the segment and company Gross margin percentage is we expect cogs between 11 and $11.2 billion in the normal range for a holiday quarter with new device launches and including 1. Of f x headwinds this. Includes approximately $400 million of linked 10 cogs of which 200.
Related to amortization expense, we expect operating expenses of 9.1. $2 billion which, includes 2. Of f x headwinds this. Includes $1.1 billion. Only den, expenses of which $154 million is related to amortization other income. And expense should be approximately $450 million as we continue to take games and our actually equities portfolio.
Expect this space to continue until the end of the fiscal year. Now, let me share some additional comments on fiscal 18. Given our strong first quarter results, our business momentum and the change in currency landscape. First on FX for the full year. At current rates, we expect FX to increase revenue dogs and opex growth at the company level by 1.
Expect full year operating expense growth excluding link 10 to be between four and 5%. This is unchanged from our prior outlook, except for the updated f x impact. Second on margins with our strong q one results and the f x impacts adjust outline we are trending a bit butter on both Gross and operating margin relative to our original full year outlook of down.
Point each we now expect operating margin excellent then to be up year over year, even as we increase investment to support long term. Top line growth in commercial cloud ai mixed reality quantum, new hardware launches and the continued transformation of our sales team. Third tax rate were up.
Tax rate to 22% plus or 2. Was variability due to the mix of services license revenue, geographic mix of revenue and timing of equity vest and expect next quarters tax rate to comment at the midpoint of that full year range. Chris. Lets go to a thanks. Amy will now move to q a jetty. Can please repeat your instructions absolutely leaders and gentlemen, at this time we will be can.
And answer session. Again, if you would like to ask a question please press star one on your phone, the confirmation tone will indicate that your line is in the question q you may press star to if you'd like to remove your question from the queue for participants using speaker equipment and may be necessary to pick up your handset before pressing the star keys. Our first question is coming from the line of Keith weiss with Morgan Stanley, please proceed with your question.
You guys for taking the question and very nice quarter saw a question for you we've been seeing intelligent cloud growing very well for quite some time, azure psa standing very very impressive growth rates, but even the server and tools business sustaining growth. When we think about the drivers of the growth is this just continued share gains by microsoft enabling you guys to outgrow the market where have you started to see stuff like?
These additional cognitive services that you bring to the market actually accelerating were clear growth within your customers. You actually like building new market opportunity for yourself with these additional services. Thanks, Keith for the question, and I would say all of the above one of the things that we started always we always believed in distributed computing.
We built for that so when we say hybrid we never thought of it as some kind of a temporary state, but we always thought the edge and the cloud was going to be where the application pattern was, in fact going to get to in fact, on very excited about some of the new work. If I look at whether it SIRT or ai the two workloads that our new both of them require.
Computation and intelligence on the edge and a very new way to do even computation, which is as you've been driven computation. So we feel good about new workload growth. We feel good about this live shift modernize motions that are happening. We feel that we are well positioned for both meeting today's realities of our enterprise Costa.
Importantly, wears on a secular basis, I believe our hybrid computing is going which is to this architectural baton of indulge in cloud intelligent edge. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks for taking next question. Please just .... Corp thank. You the next question is coming from the line of Heather Bellini with Goldman. Sachs please proceed with your question. Great thank you very. Much I take questions related to.
You guys mentioned on the call that premium services grew triple digits for the 13th quarter in a row. Now is wondering if you could give us a sense for how to think about the percentage of workloads that are now running premium services as a percentage of the total and or is that every at the point now, where that's behind a percentage of the mix that were on a tipping point here, where what seems like very significant?
Progression is going to continue at at the similar click. Thank you. I can start and you can add to this the premium services. For example, the way we think about them is and everything related to our data is and especially the higher levels database says I am not talking about Roth storage, but this has caused most DB or.
Or any of the data services are coyote services. Our ai services are all the premium services and there is a path every customer sometimes just starts with the infrastructure as a service and some storage, and then the cliff shift turns into liver shift in more than eyes and that's where these premium services get activated. So their efforts are margin uk.
For off, but most importantly, they add a tremendous amount of value to the customers and that Amy add any additional color and I think whether it gives me a good opportunity talk a little bit about the real drivers of the as the Gross margin improvement. There are really when you think about it three the first 1s just pure revenue scale we've done such a terrific job.
Growing and focus saying and innovation we put in and having our sales teams through investments we've made for the past couple of years incompetency building land that at customers. The second component in the one you asked about his little bit about that premium services revenue mix and you're absolutely seeing the impact of that growth as mix show up in the Gross margin and.
Workloads satyam mentioned also bring up. M. As you must continue to be I think of incredible value to customers and I think we've done a very good job of pointing out is competitive advantages and we're seeing that also benefit margins and finally, just a strong work and the infrastructure team both between hardware innovation done in everything from the network.
Way to the rocks and their integration with each other, as well as the software innovation being done on top of that those things together with the premium being a component of that are all lending itself to Gross margin improvement. Great that's very helpful. Thank you thanks for taking the next question. Please. Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of Phil Winslow with wells Fargo please.
Hi, thanks, guys, and congrats on a great quarter. Just wanted to focus on on offices is obviously we spent a fair amount of time on as are the Gross margins, but when with an office you'VE got several secular trends as well as just mix shift going on there, just from our price point perspective, as well as the Gross margin troy in a different levels of you want to the 3. 5. So what if you forgive us some color what we're seeing their because obviously there is helping the elysee growth.
Pace, and then it seems like margins are as well. So just provides more color and what we've been seeing and kind of how you think about that trending going forward? I mean let me just on the highest levels because for us again and in this last quarter, the thought of the innovation that will be launched. I think is also pretty key as you look forward to what it means for office and office growth. One of the news.
This call f one and this is about first line work so offices no longer limited just to the knowledge workers. In fact, we see significant opportunity for some of our team were collaboration communications, as well as scheduling soft that to be very very relevant in it for anyone who's on the manufacturing plant or a retail.
Some of our social tools like the MN our increasingly getting used for broad communications includes a bowl. Skype 15. So I just wanted to put that in in that, as well as there is, of course, he three that is three to five I pay. There is also f one, which is my great increasing the overall penetration and not to mentioned the small business segment, and of course, all the market.
Dissipating with office 3. 6. 5 where we didn't have much if a silver business that all we sold office on premise or office perpetua clients, but now you can have a small business in a country like India by office 3. 6 5 as a subscription service, so there's are all the things that are in play, and I do think that's important, Keith in terms of the innovation in value. I think some.
On this call, in particular we talk about there is installed base growth and there's ARPU increases sitting underneath that is this very large 120 million monthly active users and commercial and they're experiencing, frankly, the latest innovations that the company has built. So I look inside a seeing growth in that number allows us to actually grow the ah.
And the new services that thought to mention continues to let us grow the installed base innovations around teams innovations in I in the actual office products themselves are now being experienced by our customers. I think when you have that happen over time, it builds confidence in the product in it builds confidence in in user confidence in itself, and then purchasers or hap.
To continue to add skews and add and move up the scale. We still this is primarily the RPA growth continues to be. Some of the early earlier transitions we'VE always talked about its that he three transition as well as installed base growth. Eh five continue to see encouraging signs starting to see it enter, but that will take a long time as VE talked about's actually land in our ego.
We will move to next question please. Thank you. The next question is coming from the line of Karl care set with deutsche bank. Please proceed with your question. Thanks this one for anti emea just a general sort of corporate wide question on Gross margins, your revenue and cogs guide if I around the math correctly imply about 60 Gross margins for the December quarter, so thats going to be down....
Respect below some of the street estimates, but it sounds like your tone as little bit better for Gross margins for the full year. So I just want to make sure I leave the call understanding what's happening here is the conclusion that to queue is somewhat of a one off given the uptick in lower margin hardware and thereafter will return to a more normal year over year pattern on Gross margins?
Oh, thanks, coral. Actually this is really all the gaming x box one console launch it's very specific, and so every other Gross margin trend across icy across PBP, and across the rest of the MPC portfolio exhibits the exact same fundamental drivers and improvement.
Really this is really 100% the x box one x impact in q two of the launch on the company Gross margin and in particular the MPC Gross margin to okay. Thanks. Thank you for all we will take the next question please. Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Walter pritchard with citi. Please proceed with your question hi.
Question for a me here just looking at the dependent trying to figure out the dependency of your magic growth this year on on the volume of annuity up for renewal. I know last year he had very very very strong growth in annuity on that renewal cycle in you're talking about some some pressure into q two and then a slightly up trend for the year, but how dependent is as our growth and customers attaching that to to the volume of annuity up?
Yes, I would I wouldn't call it pressure, Walter. Just how I think about it there is adjusted exploration base that comes up every corner stood and and there's volatility to it. So the way to think about his over the year at it's up a little and in q two. It happens to be just a low quarter of the that come up through the cycle. Much like q four was quite large in the sea.
And as you are actually falls a couple of patterns it's, not just about EA attach, although it absolutely can be one of the emotions, because it tends to be project based as well and many of the investments we've made in sales capacity. And the reason we did some of the sales transformation was to invest a lot more in that project led motion which is a bit disconnected.
From the e. A renewal cycle, and you really seen that the azure pace is not if you drew a line as correlated to he says, as it even was 3 years ago, we both I think matured the product and matured our sales cycles. Okay. Great. Thank you. Thank you well, for while we will go to the next question please. Thank you. The next question is coming from the line of kirkman turn with....
I please proceed with your question. Thanks very much in all my congrats on the quarter saw th yesterday you are down at the g event, and announcing the partnership with them around predicts, and I was wondering when we think about the opportunities for as you are to be that sort of trusted platform prize. These can you just talk about how you think the progress is going on that front, because it seems to obviously just to keep.
Ham the kind of use cases you can address by bringing partners like g onto your platform. Thanks .... Corp now thank you for the. Question, overall I think you sort of speak, too I think one of the big advantages and one of the big value propositions we have on both. Sides one is to the enterprise. Customer we are a trusted, partner and we support them with their hybrid. Computing.
I needs one of the things that we emphasizes it's not about our technology, but its or ability to transfer that capability to our customer because they're increasingly becoming whether you're in retail or you're in oil and Gas, or are you in financial services, everyone to them it is trying to build our own software capability and we're uniquely capable of doing. So. The second part is the eye us we we now.
Big areas of investment this year was the core cell capacity nor field so that I as we can be successful on our platform, but that its g or adobe and many others in all now benefit both because of our enterprise partnership and credibility and more importantly, because of the field resources we are put in place so we're really looking forward to accelerating our business.
The g and many others to come, but its a very important course, cell motion and more importantly, building trust on both sides of the to question .... Corp. Thanks thank you will take the next question. Please.
Thank you. The next question is coming from the line of Mark martin or with Bernstein. Please proceed with your question. Thanks for taking my question. In again, congrats on the quarter. Fled to look at the dynamics 365 it's been growing release, as it was center stage it in vision in almost every presentation in discussion. Can you talk more about how you think about the opportunity and give us a sense of of which is.
Right now, within 365% with its here I'm a talent or European whatever our driving the growth and could be part of the future growth. Thanks. Thank you for that question the way we designed dynamics 3. 6. 5, both on the technology front as well as than the business model front what's to get away from what I would describe as the old school sweet based selling or sweet bay.
These things whether it's CR amery rb you're SCM because we realized that, for example, you take any IRT project that is starting in Asia. It first translates into on analytics workload that pulls through some azure, higher order analytics services, and then immediately after you do something like preventive maintenance. You need field service and.
Is just a very robust field service module thats cost effective inefficient and so we're able to attach that too that project are similarly on talent, they want to be able to you if you start on linked in with the hiring you want to be able to do the onboarding in Palenque a management dots the module knew what even into operation side, we realizing that, even if you keep your financial the same, there is need.
Reesing digitisation that is more operational modules that you need. So thats what we have designed it for to the growth is actually across the board it's coming in customer service it's coming in our sales it's coming in talent, it's coming in operations, and we have some very competitive price points that the auto one is that there is no such thing as a canonical been.
As a canonical business in time that means teams are always changing so customization customization and composition, especially with the office 3. 6. 5 is very important. This is where we have some very differentiated offer with power be I Paul or apps and flow, and thats another big driver of some of that growth across our enterprise customers. Thanks, Mark. Thank you banks will be.
Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of atom hold with moffett nathanson please proceed with your question hi, everyone. That was that was some quarter intended to ask about the strength in windows which I know you don't talk about much and much questions about but really since we've we've launched the question and I get by far the most is around the long term margin potential.
And with the Gross margins being as good as they were this quarter, without giving this long term guidance. Is there any reason to believe that that the long term operating margins in azure couldn't be we saw a to bs put up a mid 20s operating margin is reading structural to that will lead us to believe it couldn't do something in that range or how should we think about the long term framework for that business?
I mean I would start out I'm the one thing I would say is one I think about the long term margin. I actually think of the long term margin across on cloud. I mean when we even make our capex decisions, which is one of the drivers of margin, we think golf first twofold first body, equal stood body lot of what we do even in Wyndham most people.
With one of the most important services, we run its windows update as a cloud service. And so we have a lot of value that is across the board cloud services, whether it's x box live windows update office 3. 6. 5 dynamics, 3. 6. 5 and, of course, all of the Asian services and we are going to build scale across all of them. And so we would not in fact we.
Aggressive in taking margin in one place, we different as we see a path to margin under a different spots. Thats something that we want to make sure we follow more opportunity in a customer across the board was just trying to micro manage to Sydney margins in very specific opportunities, because we think that its the integrated ability for us to deliver. Val.
Is which I think long term is what customers expect a microsoft and I would just add that, as we think about that long term trajectory, our ability to continue to improve margins in our Saas portfolio in our passport full in as portfolio, so access and our ability to blend I'm into interesting products that sold customer solutions, which may not even be priced as the component parts.
As I think how we think about especially our solution areas that saw the you'll talks about how we talk about the delivering it to a customer. So, while I am confident and our ability to continue to grow the core margin. I do think for us, in particular it really is a portfolio that we believe that we need to manage appropriately great. Thank you thank.
Next question thank you. The next question is coming from the line of Michael nemeroff with credit Suisse. Please proceed with your question hi, thanks for taking my question. My question is on the gaming business given even larger focus you're putting on the segment in the near term, how quickly or in what timeframe do you think gaming revenue could grow at or above the average gaming industry growth rate of mid to high single digits, and I know you don't breakout segment margins. Ba.
Sense of how you think about gaming from a normalized contribution margin perspective relative to MPC and your overall company wide margins, excluding the onetime x box launch affects. Thanks I'll bet. I can start again, I would say from a gaming perspective, one of the big up our changes that has happened in the last outs a couple of years is one, of course the wide once.
Live net to walk across the pc and the console and now increasingly even on the phone because of titles like mine craft.
Once you have been network, you have plenty of different opportunities. In particular, we now have a subscription for with the game past. Thats off to a very good start and our goal is to be able to have essentially on netflix for gains, so that we can have the games subscriptions that cannot people can use across all of the devices that they play in the other areas story.
There is game playing and game watching and those secular growth on both fronts and we feel very very good about the engagement increases in a pretty unique value proposition we have in mix. So thats an another opportunity that we believe will shape. In addition, to things like the sports and sought so it's the totality of that, and what one of the numbers that I didn't put in my script.
D % growth in what we called software and. Services thats perhaps a leading indicator of where we think that the opportunity. Life these are early days for, us but that said that's probably one of the key numbers to watch as we make progress in, executes and because of that you're actually already seeing that impact in the MPC Gross margins even. This.
Great example, there was materials improvement in Gross margin in that segment, and a lot of that was actually due to the higher margins that we have structurally and that software and services revenue from acts box, and as I believe the industry is thought you were talking about pivots to be more about the engagement and monetization of that member network. You can expect that.
As well of our traditional more hardware focused x box to evolve to be a real combination of those two things going forward, and structurally that would of course of higher higher operating margins .... Corp thank you very. Much. Thanks we will take the next question. Please thank. You our next question is coming from the line of Rameau luncheon with. Barclays please proceed with. Your.
He thanks for taking my question. If the composition we have on around, as you are, after an adoption seems to be changing the customers were they seem to be to seeking a deeper relationship with you guys now, given that your and maturity has increased quite a bit over the last. Your course, can you talk to that is thats something that just I picked up, where is what using in your customer relations in your contributions as well? Thank you.
Hopefully be picked it up a lot earlier than you did we have so we do have a very different dialogue. If you think about it all of the customers that we have worked with we've always worked with them. Historically, even in October days are, but to your point're more. I think what has happened as the change even in the financial services this.
Represent the kinds of workloads. Now that are moving to the cloud has qualitatively changed in the past, we participated, but a lot of tier one workloads were not on microsoft stack. Where is now a lot of tier one workloads are in fact, increasingly on microsoft plowed, and so to me that represents a qualitative change.
And so the type of dialogue we have whether it is with an auto company or a financial services company or retail company is much deeper much broader and I would use the word we are deeply partnering with them it's no longer just simple vendor relationships, because as they're trying to build it on software capability, they need a trusted partner, who is more interested in making sure that their build their own tech.
Ability and that's what we are investing in, and I would say Rameau away to think about this is we've always had that trusted relationship, which were incredibly proud of as a as a company with our enterprise customers. The investments we've made over the past years are about hiring the type of talent that can go and sit with a customer and drive the customers successful outcomes of the projects they deploy.
Mean it's about the investments we've made in capability, the evolution of the product and innovation and I think using and trying to continue to earn the customer process to deliver these world class for clothes. So I do think this is really an output of multiple years of concentration on on delivering that capability. Thank you .... Corp thank you very. Well.
I for one more question please ... corp thank. You our last question comes from the line of rock Macmillan with RBC capital. Markets please proceed with your. Question thanks for taking my. Question such a I was curious you've made a number of announcements with adobe over the last, year so when it seems like microsoft, products and there will bes products are getting more intertwined and.
I'm just curious from your perspective if you could just maybe give us some insights into where you see big opportunities to work with the vendor like adobe, and what are they go to market actions that you are seeing being more successful? Thank you. All are all very excited about the partnership it the adobe and, as you said, there will be in microsoft apartment in fact across.
Histories are in many of the areas but are increasingly across the creative cloud and net document cloud, as well as their experience cloud. We have plenty going on and fact will be a very excited about. What are we are doing with our devices and adobe and with windows, because I think windows and windows 10 creators update.
Platform for all of the creators in the world, because of the innovation in windows in the innovation in devices, both such his book, as well as our OEM devices, so that's one area that I think you will see I would love if you're in illustrator are up Photoshop user, you should just check out the dial support that they have it so business just just beautiful, and then you go to office 3. 6. 5. We have a partner.
Signatures. We have good interoperability between our respective documents clouds that will in fact continue and then on the on the creative side, or on the experience side, in fact, we're, adding a lot of data and I capability which is obviously key to adobe as an eye as we so we are looking forward to the ultimately the impact all this has with customers in terms.
D to take advantage of our respective value and for them to be able to benefit from it all and so these kinds of partnerships, whether that adobe or others, we are very focused on making sure that I us fees and partners have success on our platforms and that's sort of our core heritage. And thats something that we want to absolutely focus on. Thanks. Thank you rough.
A portion of today's earnings call. Thank you for joining us today, and we look forward to speaking revolving Korean. Thank you so much. Thank you. All. Thank you. This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect your lines this time and we thank you for your participation.
